Scripture today is from the Gospel of John, chapter 21, verses 15 through 25. When they had finished eating, Jesus said to Simon Peter, Simon, son of John, do you love me more than these? Yes, Lord, he said. You know that I love you. Jesus said, Feed my lambs. Again, Jesus said, Simon, son of John, do you love me? He answered, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. Jesus said, Take care of my sheep. The third time he said to him, Simon, son of John, do you love me? Peter was hurt because Jesus asked him the third time, Do you love me? He said, Lord, you know all things. You know that I love you. Jesus said, Feed my sheep. Very truly I tell you,

Jesus said this to indicate the kind of death by which Peter would glorify God. Then he said to him, Follow me. Peter turned and saw that the disciple whom Jesus loved was following them. This was a sign of the love of God. This was the one who had leaned back against Jesus at the supper and had said, Lord, who is going to betray you? When Peter saw him, he asked, Lord, what about him? Jesus answered, If I want him to remain alive until I return, what is that to you? You must follow me. Because of this, the rumor spread among the believers that this disciple would not die. But Jesus did not say that he would not die. He only said, If I want him to remain alive until I return, what is that to you? This is the disciple who testifies to these things and who wrote them down. We know that his testimony is true. Jesus did many other things as well. If every one of them were written down, I suppose that even the whole world would not have room for the books that would be written. The word of the Lord. Amen. By the way, I just want to add my thanks to those of you who are, participating in the Rise campaign. It's a true game changer. And it's moving right on. This year, we've been mainly spending time looking at Jesus in the book of John, preparing his disciples to go out into the world to represent him. And most of the time, that preparation takes the form of teaching. So what we've really seen over and over is Jesus teaching his disciples. But sometimes the preparation takes the form of counseling. Sometimes Jesus comes in as a counselor and,

liberates us from the things that bind us and keep us from being what we should be. And if you are a follower of Jesus Christ, not only will you need to be taught by him, you will need what I'm going to call here, the kind of surgical counseling that he does on Peter. So we'll see what that is as we go along. So let's just notice that Peter's got a problem. He's got a big problem. And Jesus does surgery on that problem and then heals him. Okay, so let's take a look at the depth of Peter's problem, the surgery Jesus does on Peter's problem, and how it's healed. Okay, first of all, the depth of Peter's problem. Now, obviously, what, if you've never, if you know nothing else about the book of John, where we started here would be, and what Jesus is doing with Peter would be pretty inexplicable. But I think most people do know that Jesus was arrested, and when he was arrested and taken to trial, and then taken to his death, his disciples scattered. But at one point, Peter was publicly confronted and asked, are you a disciple of that man who's being taken off to death? Aren't you one of his disciples? And three times he was asked that. And three times he denied that. He was. Now, what, so why is this a big problem? Well, it is. And let me talk to you about how grievous a problem it is and how deep it is. First of all, what Peter did was incredibly grievous for several reasons. One, Peter wasn't just one of the 12 disciples. He was actually one of the three. Peter, James, and John were, in a sense, Jesus' inner circle. He gave them more input, more love. So Peter was really as close as a human being, could be to Jesus. Secondly, Peter was the only one who swore and swore that he would never deny or abandon Jesus. You know, the other disciples weren't great shakes, but at least they weren't so stupid and so out of touch with who they were that they would have done what Peter did. What Peter did was he swore that he loved Jesus more than all the other disciples. He said, if everyone else abandons you, I will never abandon you. I will go with you. I will take you even to prison and to death. That was a public claim. And it was his way of saying to Jesus, I love you more than the rest of these guys. I'm more loyal than the rest of these guys. I will never abandon you. So Peter, when he denied Jesus, he did exactly what he said he never would do. So he was one of the inner circles. He had claimed he never ever would do it. Don't forget, the other thing is he did it three times. And I think it's fair. Sometimes you can get caught off guard. Sometimes you can do something, but you don't do it once. You slip, you're scared, you're caught off guard. And it's fair to say, you know, that wasn't me. That just wasn't me. I'm not like that. That wasn't me. But when you do it three times, that's you. That is you. That is who you are. That's who you really are. So he did it three times. He claimed he never would do it. And interesting, there's a professor of New Testament at, or was, a professor of New Testament at St. Andrews, Richard Baucom, does a very interesting commentary on Mark. In the book of Mark, Jesus being denied by Peter three times is mentioned in all the Gospels. But in the book of Mark, it adds that the third time Peter denied Jesus, he called down curses. Now, Richard Baucom says, all right, why? And what does that mean? And the answer is, if you're calling down curses, you're calling down curses on somebody. So was he calling down curses on his interrogators? No, since these are the people that could haul you off to prison, no. You're not calling down curses on the interrogators. Was he calling down curses on himself? No, that would look kind of suspicious if he's trying to say, hey, I'm not, I have nothing to do with this guy. And so Richard Baucom says, Peter must have been calling down curses on Jesus. And why would he? Why would he do that? Well, because in that shame and honor culture in which high loyalty was so important, far more important than we experience here. We live in an individualistic culture. We don't even stay with our companies more than a few years, you know. But in that time and place, loyalty was everything. And for Peter to call down curses on Jesus would have been proof to anybody listening, there is no way that you're a follower of that man. You would never do such a thing. That's, so cowardly. And even though I try to just show you that, you know, a shame and honor culture is somewhat different, I think we can all identify with how grievous this is. I mean, if there was somebody you owed everything to, somebody put you through college or, you know, for free or something like that, and if you would have abandoned them to death in order to save your own skin, how would you feel about yourself? This is unforgivable. This is not only unforgivable from the outside, it's unforgivable from the inside. How could you ever forgive yourself? How could you ever, ever get past this? Do you see Peter's problem? I hope you do. Now, before moving on, let me just say, how does this relate to us? I would think that there's probably some people in this room, surely, that have something like this in your past, some regret, something you can't get past,

something that it makes it very difficult, it makes it very difficult for you to live, to live with yourself,

then you know exactly what we're talking about here, and you are very eager for the rest of this sermon, to see what Jesus does. But for the rest of us who might not right now feel that way about any one particular thing, let me warn you. There's a great verse in Jeremiah 17, 19, and I like the old King James version of it. And Jeremiah 17, 9, the heart is deceitful, above all things, and desperately wicked, who can know it? Now, the trouble with the word righteous and wicked for us, when we read it, especially in the Old Testament, it doesn't compute much to modern people. But Bruce Waltke, a great Old Testament scholar, who understood the Hebrew, understood biblical Hebrew better than anyone in the world, said that if you want to understand the real definition, the definition of the word righteousness and wickedness in the Old Testament, he says, think, remember this. The righteous are those who disadvantage themselves to advantage others. And the wicked are those who disadvantage others to advantage themselves. So, when the Bible says, the heart is deceitful above all things, and desperately wicked, who can know it? This is telling you, and me, that you are more wicked than you dare believe. You are more wicked, wicked than you can possibly admit to yourself right now. You are more capable of disadvantaging others to advantage yourself. You're more capable of cruelty, of exploitation, of lying, of doing things that harm other people to save yourself. You are more wicked than you ever dare believe, and as time goes on, it's going to come out. There might be horrible situations where you do something like what Peter did, but it's most likely smaller situations, but they will come out and you will need what Jesus is giving Peter. So secondly, what is the surgery that Jesus does to Peter? Well, I'm using the word surgery, even though you may notice that's not a metaphor in the text, but I'm using the word, the text, the metaphor to bring out what I think is in the text. So let's take a look and see what Jesus does. When they had finished eating, Jesus says to Simon Peter, Simon, son of John, do you love me? I love you. More than these? Yes, Lord. You know I love you. Feed my lambs. Simon, son of John, do you love me? Yes, Lord. You know I love you. Take care of my sheep. Simon, son of John, do you love me? Lord, you know all things. You know that I love you. Feed my sheep. Now, what is Jesus? doing. What a model of what he will do for anybody who comes to him and discovers that you're more wicked than you knew. First of all, Jesus is making Peter painfully retrace his steps. Now, before showing you exactly how he's doing that, let's step back and realize what he's doing. He is not, let's talk about what Jesus is not doing. He's not saying, hey, I'm a God of love and I just accept everybody. Nobody's perfect to err as human, whoops, and therefore, but I just love you. And let's not worry about bygones be bygones. I'm a God who just accepts everyone. Dietrich Bonhoeffer calls that cheap grace. And he says cheap grace never changes anyone. Now, Dietrich Bonhoeffer, as you know, was a German minister during World War II and in Germany. And he, was executed for his opposition to Hitler. And during World War II, he wrote a book. It was equipping ministers, by the way, in seminary, and it was called The Cost of Discipleship. But in the book, he wrestles with the question, why was it that most of the German church was willing to capitulate to Hitler? Why was it that most of the German church was willing to sign a loyalty oath to Hitler? Why? And he decided it was the concept of what he called cheap grace. Now, cheap grace is simply this. We believe in a loving God, a gracious God, but sin is no big deal. That's cheap grace. Sin is no big deal. God just loves us and accepts us. No big deal. And by the way, in New York City,

there's a lot of people who say I believe in God, but you know, no, I don't even like you talking about the word sin. Sin, and who's to say what is sin? And I believe that God just accepts everyone and loves everyone regardless. And Bonhoeffer said that a culture saturated with the idea of cheap grace rolled over for Hitler. Because when Hitler came into power, people said, well, maybe this isn't the best and this guy's not the best and maybe we shouldn't be doing this. But you know, God forgives. Why should I stand up and call out evil and get my head taken off? Literally, you know, God will accept everybody. And Bonhoeffer says, here's the irony, is that's not the gospel at all. And if you have a God for whom sin is no big deal, then love is no big deal. In other words, a God who doesn't take sin seriously isn't that loving a God? Because just to accept people, what does that require? Nothing. But the God of the Bible is a holy God. He's a just God. He is too pure. His eyes can't even behold iniquity. And yet he wants to love us. So how can he love and forgive us? Only through the expense of grace, costly grace. Jesus Christ going to the cross and taking the divine judgment. You see, and here's what's so ironic. Only a God who hates sin, who sees the seriousness of sin, only that God is a God whose love is electrifying, astounding. Costly. And therefore, what I just chose, I just did a theological thing on you. I just says, theologically, the holier your concept of God, the more electrifying and costly his grace to save us so he can embrace us and accept us and love us. But it's also true personally. It's also true in the heart. You will never be electrified by the love of God unless you see the depth and the seriousness of your sin. In fact, to the degree you see your sin in the darkest colors, to that degree will the grace of God feel precious and be amazing, amazing love. How can it be that thou, my God, shouldst die for me? It's not amazing unless you see how bad your sin is. And that's exactly what Jesus is doing. Look how painful it is. First of all, it's not in the text, but if you were here last week, in chapter 21, verse 9, Jesus has appeared. He appeared after the resurrection to the disciples on the beach, and he calls them to eat around a coal fire. Verse 9. We didn't read it here today. Peter denied Christ around a fire. Jesus brings them back to a fire. Peter denied Christ three times. Peter is asked by Jesus three times, do you love me? In fact, look at the first question. He says, Peter, do you love me? More than these. So Jesus is not just going back to what Peter's denials. He's going back to his claim that, yes, I love you more than all these other guys. You know, I'm more loyal than all the rest of you. I mean, Jesus is just taking him back to his claim. He's walking him through it. And you say, wow, that's hard. Yes, it is. Look at verse 17. It says, Peter was hurt. I mean, not just once, not just twice, three times. He was hurt. It was hard. And you say, boy, he's twisting the knife. No, he's not twisting the knife, but he's using the knife. Because he's a surgeon. And if he is merciful to you,

you will feel that knife coming in. You will see your wickedness at some point. Now, the way God puts that knife in you is the Bible, the Holy Spirit, some really good friends, your best friends, you know, better is, you know, open rebuke than hidden love. Friends that will tell you about what's wrong with you. So through friends, through the Holy Spirit, through the Bible, and just through life circumstances, at some point, in will go the knife. Because Jesus knows there's no way you're going to be healed and electrified by my love unless you see the depth and seriousness of what you've done. So the first part of the surgery is in goes the knife. But here's the second part. Now, sorry about the metaphor. Please, physicians, you know, bear with me because I'm a lay person. But you know, sometimes the doctor cuts into you and you're not under a general anesthetic. In which case, you need to hold still. You know, I mean, I've never actually had a doctor, you know, I remember one time a doctor was saying, now hold still or I'll probably cut your entire toe off. Now, he doesn't usually say that, but I mean, obviously I can't start doing this. I need to hold still if he's working on my, foot if he's working on something like that. And so to extend the metaphor, when the knife comes in and when Jesus shows you your sin, you need to hold still so that what happens actually doesn't just wound you, but actually heals you. And how do you do that? Through repentance. Repentance is holding still under the knife. Now, there's a great verse in 2 Corinthians 2, 2 Corinthians 7, which goes by very fast. It's verse 10. It goes by very fast, but it's a life-changing insight. And this is where Paul says, godly sorrow brings repentance that leads to salvation and no regret, but worldly sorrow brings death. Godly sorrow leads to repentance and to salvation and no regret, but worldly sorrow brings death. Very interesting. Godly sorrow is repentance and real repentance is repentance. Repentance, according to Paul, liberates. But there's another kind of remorse, another kind of sorrow in the face of your sin that actually leads to woundedness so that you spend the rest of your life being angry and bitter and hating yourself. You see what I mean? You see why I'm using the metaphor? When the knife goes in and you see you've done something wrong, repentance is being still under the blade. So that you actually are healed. But there's another kind of godly sorrow, worldly sorrow, another kind of remorse that actually makes things worse. So which kind is Peter responding with? It's true repentance, of course. But you can sort of see it. Because there's two things Peter does not do that will tell you the difference between true repentance and godly sorrow, godly repentance and worldly sorrow. The one thing he does is he makes absolutely no excuses at all. There's no excuses. Not any defensiveness. So for example,

do you love me more than these? You know that I love you. Do you love me more than these? You know that I love you. Now, what he could easily, the second time he could have said, excuse me, Lord, I already told you. Of course I love you. I mean, even there you're starting to get defensive. Or he could have said, why are you rubbing it in? I've already admitted it. Or he could have said, hey, my life was on the line. Cut me a break. There's all sorts of ways he could have made excuses, been defensive, but no. Absolutely receives whatever Jesus says. But there's another thing he doesn't do. He doesn't make excuses. But on the other hand, he doesn't grovel either. He doesn't say, oh, I'm terrible. I'm awful. I don't want, why do you even have anything to do with me? I'm so unworthy. I'm unworthy. He's not doing that either. And that's what, that's the difference. You see, real repentance is repentance for sin. But what Paul calls worldly sorrow is a kind of self-pity. In self-pity, you're really upset, but you're upset about yourself. You're upset about the mess you've gotten into. You're upset about how you feel. And what you're doing is, all you know is, I just gotta get God to let me go. He's keeping me feeling guilty. I've gotta do something. I have to appease him. I have to, I have to, I have to grovel. I have to do whatever. It's all about you. You're looking at God only as someone who can kind of get rid of the pain. And you're all upset about the pain. But in real repentance, it's all about him. What is upsetting you? It's sorrow. Repentance is sorrow. What's upsetting you is that you wronged him. That you hurt him. That you grieved him. That he's in pain. And see, when you see that, then you just stay still. You receive whatever, you know if you're going to be saved, it'll be by grace, not by trying to somehow wheedle out of him some kind of, you know, forgiveness because you've been so abject and so, and so, you know, and talk so much about how unworthy you are. No. Peter stays still. And as a result, he's healed. Now do you see how it works? My goodness. Basically, Jesus says three times,

Peter, do you love me? And when Peter says, yes, I love you, you know what's really going on there. Let me give you another way of putting it. Jesus says, Peter, you failed me. And each time Jesus, Peter says, yes, I did. You failed me. I failed you. And look, look what Jesus does. As soon as Peter responds, and he's responding with repentance, immediately. As soon as Peter responds, repentantly, every single time, what does Peter, Jesus say? Feed my lambs, feed my sheep, take care of my sheep. What is that? Well, who are the sheep? Who are the lambs? Well, the lambs and the sheep, of course, are his people, the church. And to take care or to feed, Jesus uses words like poimenos, which has to do with shepherding. And shepherding, shepherds were the leaders. I mean, every king was often called a shepherd. And pastors were, of course, called shepherds. And here's what's going on. Jesus says, you failed me. Peter says, I did fail you. And Jesus says, right, you failed me. You failed me utterly. Okay, you're in charge now. You failed me terribly. Now, you're the leader. You're the biggest failure now. You're the top leader. What? The moment Jesus, the moment Peter responds to repentance, Jesus Christ drives down into his heart, of hearts, with the most incredible love and affirmation. And here's Jesus' message. Peter, you are the biggest failure of all of the, of all the surviving disciples, you're the biggest failure. And therefore, because you're plunging your failures in my grace, you will be the best leader. Plunge your failures into my grace and they become like lead turned to gold. You say, how could that possibly be? Well, it's because of this. What do you want in a leader? Don't you want a leader who understands the human heart? Don't you want a leader who's not overconfident? But don't you want a leader who's not underconfident? You see, when your identity is now rooted in Christ, not in your performance, you've got confidence. Now that you know that you're a sinner saved by grace, you understand the human heart. Now you can take, you can take, you can take criticism. The simple fact is this. In religion and morality, religious morality says if I'm strong and I don't do anything wrong, then God will bless me. But the gospel is only when I admit I'm weak, only when I see that I'm a sinner saved by grace, do I see what God has done for me and I get connected with the favor of God. See, religiosity says it's strength that can, you know, connects you to weakness, to God's grace. But the gospel says it's weakness that connects you to God's grace. Paul says it. When I'm weak, then I'm strong. Only when I'm weak am I strong. Only to the degree I see that I'm weak am I strong. And that actually means because you're the biggest failure and you've come to me and you've come under my knife and you've responded and repents, okay, I'll mix the metaphor. You've plunged your failure into my grace. You'll be the biggest leader, the best leader of them all. Peter's healed. And he can heal you. How? How's Jesus able to do this? You know, I love the place here in verse 18 where Jesus says to Peter, solemnly I say to you, you know, he says, very truly I say, he says, when you were younger you dressed yourself and went where you wanted but when you're old you will stretch out your hands and someone else will dress you and lead you where you do not want to go. Jesus said this to indicate the kind of death by which Peter would glorify God. Then he said to him, follow me. Now, it even tells you, when we read this, he says, they will stretch out your hands and take you where you don't want to go. We say, what is that? It's a metaphor for crucifixion. It was a way of talking about crucifixion. And of course, the passage tells you just because, I mean, John wanted everybody to know what that meant. But when Jesus says, follow me, he's reminding us of this. This is a metaphor for how all Christians ought to live. What does it mean to be a Christian? To take up your cross. What does this mean? Before you're a Christian, you're like this. You dress yourself and you go where you want. Basically, you might help the poor here or there, give to charity. But basically, your life is, I just, I want to figure out how I can, you know, maximize my life and be as happy as I possibly can. But after you become a Christian, you take up your cross. You know, to have your hands nailed open, means you're vulnerable. You're exposed. To take up your cross means what? You no longer go where you want to go. You no longer do what you want to do. You always say, how can I be serving the people around me? How can I be serving my master? Your hands are nailed open. You're exposed. Your wallet is exposed. Your schedule is exposed. Your emotions are exposed. You don't defend yourself. You open up to the people, to the lambs, to the sheep, to the people around you. You care about people. You don't live for, you don't live for yourself anymore. You live for him. You're not your own. You're bought with a price. How was it that Peter, that selfish, self-absorbed guy, three times he did it, became such a great shepherd? The answer is he saw that Jesus' arms had been nailed open for him. And that enabled him to live the rest of his life nailed open for everyone else. Now let's close this way. Let me be as practical as I can be. And take a couple minutes to do it. Number one. First of all, Peter literally probably did get crucified. Some of you've heard, even though nothing in the Bible tells us what happened to Peter in the end, there's enough evidence that Peter probably actually was literally crucified for his faith. And so he followed his master quite literally. But notice, one of the more comedic parts of the Bible is where basically Jesus says, you know, Peter, you're gonna die for your faith. And Peter says, huh, and looks around and sees John coming. He says, what about him? I'm gonna die, what about him? Is he gonna die? And Jesus says, what is that to you? And one of the things you have to keep in mind is if you follow Christ, he is gonna give you what you need. He's gonna, one of the things you're gonna need is you're gonna need to see your wickedness. So he's gonna show it to you. You're gonna need to see your helplessness and your weakness. Otherwise, you'll never be strong in him. Never. But the point is, some people will rather more literally experience crosses and some of the rest of us not as much. And that's, what is that to you? God is gonna give you never more than you can bear, but just about as much as you can. And if you don't have as much as this person or that person, what is that to you? So the first thing is, don't compare yourself to other people. Just say, Lord, where do you want me? I wanna have my arms open. I wanna be vulnerable. I wanna be vulnerable to serving you and the people around me. And don't worry about everybody else's path. You've got your own path. You know, in the Narnia Chronicles, the Aslan Christ figure is always saying that, child, I only tell you your story. I don't tell you anybody else's story. That's number one. Number two, the lambs and the sheep. One of the reasons why Jesus and the Bible always talks about the church as lambs and sheep is because it's such an insult. You know, it doesn't say feed my cattle. You know, it doesn't say take care of my dogs and cats. You know, cats come up and they nuzzle you. But sheep are kind of like useless. They're stupid and they're smelly and they're flea bitten and all that sort of stuff. And whenever Jesus talks about sheep, he's talking about how human beings really are. And what that really means is, if you're gonna follow Jesus Christ, you need to be willing to deal with the kind of un, how do I say, there's an awful lot of people in your life that for you to take care of them, love them, serve them, it's gonna be unbelievably unfulfilling for you. Just, you get almost nothing out of it. I'm throwing this in for the sake of a couple of you. Dick Lucas, who was a, he's still alive, but he's a pastor. He was a great preacher in England, in London, at a church in London for many years. He's still alive, but I've listened to many, many recordings of his sermons. And when he preached on this subject, when he preached on this text, John 21, feed my lambs, feed my sheep, he tells a story that many years ago, he came to Stony Brook School out on Long Island, a boarding school, and he did a whole week-long series of preaching and messages at the chapel. And the very first day, to his great distress,

the headmaster got up and said, and by the way, Reverend Lucas is here all week to preach, but also if any of you want to talk to him personally about any personal matters, as a pastor, he's available. Now, Dick Lucas was born in the 1920s. He's a Cambridge Englishman, and he's a lifelong bachelor. And in the sermon I heard him preach, he said, to put it mildly, I have always found children to be a trial. And he listened to 12 to 14-year-old kids coming in, boys and girls, mainly, mainly talking about how they had this crush on something, and they were like, And the other person didn't really even know I exist. And here's this, you know, and Dick Lucas is sitting there saying, oh, Lord, somebody I could go to a play with, somebody I could go to a pub with, why am I here? And the second night after he was just despising them all, he was supposed to be preaching on John 21, and he saw the place where it said, feed my lambs, and he was just knocked flat. And he almost, and by the way, you know, he's an uncharismatic, anglican, so he doesn't really hear voices, but here's how he felt. He felt he heard Jesus say, I don't get much out of my, you know, my relationship with you. You're my lamb. Now you feed my other lambs. Please be patient with the people around you. Please be open to the people around you. Even the ones that aren't very rewarding. One last thing, it's the last thing. In Jesus Christ, God the Father really loves you. And I do think, look, there's two kinds of people out here, I think. I think the typical New Yorker is way overconfident, but down deep underneath, we're all afraid that we're not lovable. One of the reasons we're working so hard is we're trying to cover up the sense that we're not good. Some of you are very, very aware of a kind of self-loathing in your life, and it's very difficult for you to really believe that. God or anybody else could really love you. This is a way of saying, yeah, he does. There's a great poem by the great 17th century metaphysical poet, George Herbert. And George Herbert has a, it's a poem about a dialogue between the father talking about, to a soul who doesn't like, a soul who is sort of self-hating. And the soul is saying to the father, you can't love me. I've tried so hard to improve myself. And I have seen no gains. So I don't see why I am worth even dealing with. And then the father comes back and says, don't you tell me, you know, who I should value, who I should love. Because my son, Jesus Christ thought you were valuable enough to die for than you are. Now, this is really great English poetry, but here's how it goes. This is the first stanza where the soul is telling God, you know, you don't, you just forget about me. And he says, it says, sweetest savior, if my soul were, but worth the having quickly, should I then control any thought of waving, but when all my cares and pains cannot give the name of gains to this wretch, so full of stains, what delight or hope remains. And the father, God says, what child is the balance thine, thine, the poison measure. If I say thou art mine, finger, not my treasure, what the gains in having thee do amount to only he who for man was sold can see that transferred the accounts to me. There's a considerably less sophisticated children's poem that goes like this. It says the same thing. The stars will live for a million years, for a million years in a day, but Christ and I will live and love when the stars have passed away. Let's pray. Now, father, um, there's so much anger toward you in the world, but I think it's largely because we don't believe you love us in your son, Jesus Christ. You prove that you do. And father, there's a lot of anger at our own, at each other and ourselves because we don't know the grace. We don't experientially know. We say Jesus died for us. Since we don't know what it means. We haven't made it our own. We haven't been transformed by it. Father. Um, thank you that you've shown us here. How the, the surgery of the gospel of knowing what you, who we are and what your son has done for us can change and transform us. Continually do that for us so that we can be conformed more and more into the image of your son in whose name we pray. Amen.
