We're looking every month at 1 Corinthians. Take a look at the passage that's listed there or written out for you. 1 Corinthians 5 we're getting to, and each month we're looking at how this passage of 1 Corinthians helps us understand what it means to be the people of God, new humanity, God's alternate city.

Let's read it. And when you read it, you're going to say, oh my word, oh my word. But it's actually a very, very important passage for us.

Just as if I were present. When you are assembled in the name of our Lord Jesus, and I am with you in spirit, and the power of our Lord Jesus is present, hand this man over to Satan, so that the flesh, the sinful nature, may be destroyed and his spirit saved in the day of the Lord. Are you enjoying it so far? Okay.

Your boasting is not good. Don't you know that a little yeast works through the whole batch of dough? Get rid of the old yeast. I promise that you may be a new batch without yeast, as you really are. For Christ, our Passover lamb, has been sacrificed. Therefore, let us keep the festival. Not with the old yeast, the yeast of malice and wickedness, but with bread without yeast, the bread of sincerity and truth. I have written you in my letter not to associate with sexually immoral people, not at all meaning the people of this world who are immoral or greedy or swindlers or idolaters. In that case, you would have to leave this world. But I am now writing you that you must not associate with anyone who calls himself a brother, but is sexually immoral or greedy, an idolater or a slanderer, a drunkard or a swindler. With such a man, do not even eat. What business is it of mine to judge those outside the church? Are you not to judge those inside? God will judge those outside. Expel the wicked man from among you.

Now, there's a case. It's treated with church discipline. There's a reason given for it. And then finally, some reflections on how the church relates to the world. Verses 1 and 2, there's a case, a situation. Then verses 3 to 5, the remedy is church discipline. Then verses 6 to 8, a reason for the discipline. And then verses 9 to the end, some reflections on the relationship of the church to the world. Now, let's take a look. Let's just go through it and then draw out some of our implications. First of all, verses 1 and 2. It's actually reported, Paul's language of just slightly under control outrage, there's sexual immorality among you. Now, this is the Greek word pornea, from which we get our word pornography. And it's a word that Paul uses five times, I think, in 1 Corinthians 5, 6, and 7. So it's a major issue here. The word pornea is the most general word, and it does mean sexual immorality. Adultery is a subcategory of pornea. In the Bible, pornea means having sex with anybody you're not married to, period.

This isn't an evening on sexual ethics, and so I'm not going to go through and prove it, but that's what the word means, and there's no doubt at all. So whenever you see the word sexual immorality, adultery is one form of sexual immorality. Pre-marital sex, where two people who aren't married to one another are having sex, is pornea. And so on. Now, notice there's a particular kind here. This is a juicy passage. It says, Now, almost certainly, that doesn't mean that this man is having an affair with his mother. If he was, they would say, I mean, you know, in a society like that, that would have been incredible. It would be incredible for us, too. And it would have been said, He says his father's wife, so it means his stepmother. It doesn't say whether or not... The father's dead. It doesn't say whether the stepmother's divorced. But the word has means they're not married. And actually, it's a present progressive. It actually says a man is having his father's wife. And so what it's really saying is a man is in a sexual relationship with his father's wife, with his stepmother. And it says even the pagans don't do this sort of thing. And by the way, that is true. Even in a... We not only know, this was incest, by the way, whether it was a biological mother or not, it was incest. And it was forbidden by the Romans and the Greeks. But it's also, interestingly enough, I always thought, you know, in the early 90s, some of you know that this is what Woody Allen did, or at least what somebody did with Woody Allen. That is, Woody Allen's stepdaughter, or Sunyi, who was raised by Mia Farrow, and who Woody had known as a child. She grew up, and then he had an affair with her, and they went in and he lived with her. And, you know, it's amazing that even though Manhattan is absolutely as sexually libertine as you can get, Woody Allen has never, his reputation's never recovered from that. Because people understand that there's more going... There's an exploitation issue here. That to take a family relationship like that and exploit it sexually is just understood as being wrong. And so Paul says, you know, even the pagans know this isn't a good idea. And then he says, and you are proud... Now, the big debate here, though I don't think it's that hard, the debate is, what does that mean? Does it mean that they are proud because of it, or in spite of it? That's the question. Are they saying, you're proud that this man is having an affair with his stepmother, that they're living together and having sex together? It's unlikely that the Corinthian church was that bad. That everybody was saying, hey, isn't that great? If you take a look at the rest of the correspondence, it doesn't seem like the Corinthian church has gone that far. It's much more likely, what he's saying, you're proud of yourselves, you think you're this great, great church, and yet you're letting things go in your midst that need to be dealt with. And that's much more likely. But it is a scary thing. Here's what Paul is saying. Don't you dare be proud of your church if church discipline that needs to be done isn't being done. It's pretty remarkable. Now, why is this so hard for us? We all know why it's so hard for us. The whole idea of expelling, it says, you must put this man out of your fellowship, the one who did this. This whole idea goes radically against our modern culture in which we have what you might call moral individualism and expressive individualism. Expressive individualism is the idea that I have to decide within myself what is right or wrong. I determine it. You know, all traditional cultures, understood that you found right and wrong in some standard outside, whether it's moral law or divine law or whatever, and then I conform my insides to it. But today, we believe that you define what is right or wrong, and then you actually, in a sense, then you take your circumstances and you mold and change them to fit with what you think is right and wrong. So expressive individualism says, I decide what is right or wrong. Moral individualism says, I am only responsible for myself. I'm not responsible for what anybody else does. I'm not responsible for what anybody else does at all. Now, when you put expressive individualism together with moral individualism, you get no church discipline at all. Because on the one hand, expressive individualism is, who am I to say what's right or wrong for that person? Moral individualism is to say, well, I know they're doing something wrong, but that's not my problem. I should not get involved. I should not confront. I should not go, go after them. You put, in other words, expressive individualism, moral individualism, put it together, and you get churches in which this sort of thing is never dealt with. It's very hard. But why is it right? It's right for two reasons. The first reason is, it's right because of the reality of corporate responsibility. Now, what is corporate responsibility? Americans, modern people, but especially Americans, I mean, even if you go to Canada, Australia, those of you who are from Canada, Australia, or Europe, even you know that Americans are more individualistic even than you. Even, frankly, even if your countries are actually more secular and less religious, you're still more concerned about the group and the common good than America where it's the individual. Americans believe that you are completely the product of your individual choices and decisions, period. But the reality is that you are more the product of your relationships and your models and your examples. You are really the product of your community more than you are a product of your own individual choices and decisions. In fact, your great choices and decisions you're so proud of we're completely shaped by because they're a reaction to your parents and to your family and to the models and your neighborhood and your relationships. This is the reason why we're always shocked whenever we read Joshua chapter 7. Why are we shocked? Because God says we're not an imperialistic country. So when we go into Canaan to take back Canaan, I don't want anyone taking plunder for yourself. We're not going in there just to increase our individual wealth. We're going in and we're going to take over Canaan but you can't keep any of the money for yourself. And Achan, A-C-H-A-N, very famous guy, Achan takes some of the money in spite of what God had said and hides it under the floor of his tent. In other words, they go and they take a city and he steals some of it instead of giving it to the tabernacle and so on. And when they find out that Achan has done this wrong, the entire family, his entire family is put to death. And we Americans go nuts. We say this is just terrible. We're moral individualists. He should be held responsible for what he does and you shouldn't hold the family responsible. Why not? Common sense tells us at the very least a man cannot develop that kind of dishonesty in character at least without the complicity of his family. And more likely, he's part of a community in which it was fostered. I mean, they weren't stupid. They realized that a family like that is going to produce other Achans and they held them responsible for Achan. And we don't see it that way. But we're wrong. We're wrong. We are held responsible for our community. There is such a thing. I won't go any further because the time runs on because this is a big subject anyway. But you know, what this means is when you know there's somebody who claims to be a Christian in the church having sex with his girlfriend or having sex with her boyfriend and you say, well, I'm not going to say anything about it. I want to get involved. You have let the culture into the church rather than taking the church out into the culture. Simple as that. You're being controlled not by what the Bible says about responsibility but what the culture says about it. Let's take a look at the response. There's a lot more to say, but okay. The response is pretty interesting. And I noticed a few of your, I saw a few eyebrows going up. He says,

Well, what the heck does that mean? And this is what most people, would say. And it's a, it's a, I think it's absolutely right. First of all, one of the questions that comes up is what does it mean to say his flesh should be destroyed? And of course, you know, the Greek word sarx for flesh can mean the body or it can mean the sinful nature. You know, the part of your heart that's still under, under the dominion of sin or under the influence of sin. Now, if he's saying hand him over, in such a way that his body be destroyed, what he's really saying is, is make sure he dies, that his soul may be saved. But it's very unlikely because here we have in 2 Corinthians 2, verses 5 to 11, the second, no, it's not here. Over in the next letter, the second Corinthian letter, Paul says something that even if it's not referring to this guy, it shows what he expects the result of church discipline to be. He says in 2 Corinthians 2, 2 Corinthians 2, 5 and 11, Now the one who caused you grief, he has not so much grieved me as he has grieved all of you. The punishment inflicted on him by the majority, which is the same thing, is sufficient. Now instead you must forgive and comfort him so he will not be overwhelmed by excessive sorrow. I urge you therefore to reaffirm your love for him. The reason I wrote to you was to see if you would stand, he would stand, you would stand the test and be obedient in everything. If you forgive anyone, I also forgive him and whatever you do, whatever I have forgiven, if there was anything to forgive, I have forgiven in the sight of Christ for your sake in order that Satan might not outwit us for we are not unaware of his devices. And it's almost certainly talking about the same guy. But even if it's not, you see what he really expects. The whole purpose of church discipline is to wake the guy up, is to soften the man's heart. And in 2 Thessalonians 3, 15, it actually says the very same thing. Put him out, but don't treat him like an enemy, but counsel him as a brother. Very interesting. So almost certainly when it says for the destruction of the flesh, it's saying that by doing church discipline, you're going to not hurt him, but hurt the sin in him. Erode it and weaken it. Humble him. Convict him. Open his eyes to what he's doing. But what in the world does it mean to say turn him over to Satan? And here's something that we better take seriously, but maybe we have to think about. Paul believed that the act of discipline in which you said to someone, you're no longer part of our fellowship. We'll talk about that. We still have a couple minutes to talk about that, what that means here. But it's a really weird thing when you consider that about two-thirds of the people that come to Redeemer just come on Sunday. And a lot of people come to three or four churches, and some people stop coming to church, and then eventually they'll start coming back to church. Paul understood, and he said, that to be out of fellowship was in a sense to put yourself in harm's way, to be hung out to dry. In other words, imagine that there's radiation coming down, and it'll eventually kill you unless you get into the fallout shelter. According to Paul, being deeply involved in a Christian fellowship in a church is being in the fallout shelter. And anybody who's out of fellowship is out there naked, is out there, the world, the flesh, and the devil is just going to wear them down and erode them. He has this enormous, enormously strong understanding of the importance of being deeply involved in a fellowship. If you're not in a fellowship, you are prone to the attacks of Satan. Why not? Well, here's what it means. Unless you center your life on Jesus, which is what you're built for, you're going to be falling apart. There's going to be disintegration in your life, spiritually, psychologically, physically. And there's no way to stay centered on Jesus Christ all by yourself. There is no way. You've got to be in a fellowship. You've got to be worshiping together. You've got to be ministering to one another. You've got to be held accountable. You've got to be. You will not do it all by yourself. You won't do it. And Paul's understanding was that discipline is not so much a judicial act as it was a communal act in the realm of the Spirit. You say to the man, as a group, with fear and trembling, we love you and therefore we're putting you out of the fellowship so you will not be protected. You're leaving the protection of the fellowship. Bad things are going to happen to you spiritually. And we hope that what that's going to do is it's going to convict you to come back in. I mean, if this all sounds a little bit hard to understand, it's only because we don't take the church that seriously. Nowhere near as serious as Paul is. Paul did. Okay? Now, I mean, we don't have time to, there's a whole lot of questions this raises. I would love to remind you, but let me do it, just briefly, remind you of all the other places in the Bible that talk about church discipline. For example, it's a process. That's Matthew 18 and Galatians 6. You don't just do something like this right away. You go and you spend time and you talk and you talk and evidently Paul or somebody else has been working with this guy and that's it. Now it's time for this. You've got to remember the process. You've also got to remember the context of the gospel. And the context of the gospel is the sin that can destroy you is unrepentant sin. I mean, we're all sinning. We're all walking around sinning all the time. But the gospel makes you repent of your sin. Makes you see what's wrong with it. And therefore, the only sin that can actually lead to be expulsion is sin that's unrepented. That's the difference. You see that? It's not sin per se. It's not sexual sin per se. It's not one of these sins per se. But it's the unwillingness to repent that is the only thing that can lead to this. Now, what's the reason for the need for it? Let's do this kind of quickly. Look what Paul says about the Passover. And this is interesting. He says, Your boasting is not good. Don't you know that a little yeast works through the whole batch of dough? Get rid of the old yeast that you may be a new batch without yeast, as you really are. For Christ, our Passover lamb, has been sacrificed for us. Therefore, let us keep the feast. We're about to go. I have to say this, right? Not with the old yeast of malice and wickedness, but the new yeast. Now, you know what this means? The Passover was this great deliverance from Egypt. Remember? And so every year, the Jews celebrated the Passover and pointed back to the great deliverance. And one of the ways they did that was they ate unleavened bread. Because when they left Egypt, they had to leave so fast they weren't able to use yeast in their bread. They just made the bread and got out. Didn't have time to let it rise. What that meant was, unleavened bread pointed to the salvation that they had experienced. And if you got any yeast into your bread, you weren't able to use it in the celebration. So yeast destroys Passover joy. Got that? Yeast makes the bread useless for the great celebration. Paul's saying, however, that Jesus is the ultimate Passover lamb. And Jesus' death and resurrection is the ultimate salvation. And therefore, our entire lives are one long Passover celebration. It's one long feast. Everything you do should be pointing to the gospel. Everything you do. But when you do unrepentant sin, you destroy your celebration. You destroy your ability to point to the gospel. In other words, a lack of Passover joy is the reason why you've got to expel it. It's a lack of joy that has to be thrown out. Do you understand that? It's interesting. It's sin, yes. But it's not just sin. I mean, you sin. I sin. Frankly, when you're continually repenting, the sin actually makes you happier through the gospel and it makes you, it humbles you. It reminds you of how much, you know, you're only saved by grace. But when you fall into sin and you refuse to admit it and you refuse to repent of it and you refuse to change, it destroys your joy. And because it destroys your joy, you become the yeast in the bread. And the bread, the church, is the bread. And that means we can't celebrate anymore. There's division. There's, this is one of the reasons why it's not just sexual sin, but greed. Not just greed, but division, unreconciled relationships. There's all sorts of things that in the New Testament are the cause of church discipline. But ultimately, it's a lack of joy that comes from sin that you're not bringing to the gospel. You're not letting it, the gospel, humble you and help you repent of the sin. Now lastly, one last thing. I have written you in my letter not to associate you with sin, but to associate with sexually immoral people. Not at all meaning the people of this world who are immoral or the greedy or swindlers or idolaters. In that case, you would have to leave this world. But I'm writing you that you must not associate with anyone who calls himself a brother, but is sexually immoral or greedy. With such a man, do not even eat. Now, you know, if we had a Q&A, it would be better right here. But here's what it's, first of all, the word associate, the lexicographers go nuts with this because it almost certainly does not mean you're not allowed to talk to them. The same word is used in 2 Thessalonians 3.15 where Paul says, make sure you counsel him and don't treat him as an enemy. Don't associate with him, but don't treat him as an enemy and continue to counsel with him. How could that be? Does that make sense? It doesn't make sense if you translate this word don't associate. And therefore, this is probably a bad translation. The better translation is don't mix indiscriminately. Table fellowship meant something that was not much more than it means today. To invite somebody into your home meant I'm bringing you into the greatest intimacy and hear what it's saying. When you expel a person by church discipline, you continue to stay in loving connection to them. You still talk with them. You still admonish them. You don't mind if they certainly are kind of glad if they come to hear the word of God preached. But you find some way to express that we're no longer in the same kind of intimate fellowship we were before. You, in every place, it has to be a little different. You have to find some way of saying, no, we're not on the same terms that we were on before. Now, if the person's a member, you take them out of membership. You say you can't receive the Lord's Supper. There's other ways of doing it. And by the way, traditionally, church discipline should only be as notorious as the sin, which is to say, especially in a church like Redeemer, where almost nobody knows everybody, unless Tim or a pastor or maybe not even the elders, practically. Generally speaking, church discipline needs to be as notorious as the sin, which is to say, if it's happening somewhere, the people who know about it ought to be told about it and they should meet and they should make this declaration. And you know what? It really can change a person when they actually hear it. When people take seriously the spiritual power they have in the realm of the Spirit to say, we are taking you out of this fellowship. We love you. We're going to continue to keep some kind of connection. We're going to come by to see you whenever we possibly can if you're willing to let us. But these are the things that have changed now so that we are no longer in the same relationship with you. That's got to be done. But notice what's interesting.

Here's a church where Paul says, I expect you to be out there with the immoral and the greedy and the swindlers. Did you see that? He says, my job is not to judge them. Let's not be like most churches, which on the other hand, pull their skirts up away from the immoral and the neat, weird people out there and meanwhile, are gutless about the sin in their own midst. The materialism, the greed, the sexual immorality. We should be the other way around. Incredibly gracious in cleaning our own house, yet at the same time, absolutely engaged in the lives of the people around us, even the most sinful and most immoral. That's what this is saying. I don't know that we're there yet, but, but, you know, Redeemer is closer than most churches I know, but it's still a long way from what it ought to be. It's actually closer than most churches I know when it comes to this, but we are large and I know that because of the individualism, there's an awful lot of people out there saying, well, they're not doing what they should do, but it's not my responsibility. Yes, it is. Absolutely. So, let me just finish with this quote by one of the commentators. The world is waiting to see such a church which takes sin so seriously, which enjoys forgiveness completely, which is in its time of gathering, has an awesome sense of God's immediate presence to bless and shape and transform people, and which loves and involves itself with the people of this world in costly, compassionate service. That's what 1 Corinthians 5 is all about.