Now, what we've been doing for a number of weeks, and we've got a week or two left, is each week we're looking at a different basic vocabulary word or a basic concept in faith and spirituality. What we've been doing is we've been actually going through the Apostles' Creed. Now, once a month here in this service, we read the Apostles' Creed, we stand up and use it when we receive the Lord's Supper. The Apostles' Creed was one of the very, very first summaries that the church put together what the Bible taught, what its basic message was. So we're getting every one of those phrases out of the Apostles' Creed, and then we're going to the book of John. Because in the book of John, again, I think, we have a place where the writer was trying to give us the basics. Now, today we get to a place in the Apostles' Creed, which actually, let's see, next week, if you're here... If you're here next week, you'll be able to read it and hopefully say it. And it's the place where it says, I believe in the Holy Catholic Church. Now, of course, there's always a question that comes up right here, and we have to remember that because the Apostles' Creed was written a very, very long time ago, when the word Catholic was used then, it was a generic word. It wasn't the name of a particular branch of the worldwide church. When the word was originally put into the Apostles' Creed, it had its generic sense, its natural sense, which means universal. And what that means is... The Apostles' Creed said, I believe in the universal church, the church of all Christians at all time and places. Now, one of the things that is amazing, I think, about that part of the Apostles' Creed is this. The verb, I believe, in Latin, credo, is at the very beginning of the creed. And it's never repeated, really, or very seldom repeated. It's repeated, I believe in God the Father Almighty, maker of heaven and earth. Then, later on, it says... And in Jesus Christ, the Holy Ghost. And it goes on to judge the living and the dead. Then, finally, it's repeated again, where he says, I believe in the Holy Ghost, the Holy Spirit, excuse me, the Holy Catholic Church. Now, one of the things that we forget is that word believe is attached to the church. That at the baptism, in early Christians, put the Apostles' Creed together originally to be something you confessed at your baptism. And at baptism, you were expected to get up and say, I believe. In the church. Well, now, why would you be asked to say, I believe in the church? I mean, I could see, you know, we can say, it takes faith to believe in God. A lot of people don't believe God exists. Sometimes you look out in the world, is God in charge of the world? Did God create the world? Sometimes it's hard to believe. So it takes faith. So at baptism, I believe in God. I believe in Jesus. That makes sense. I believe in the Holy Spirit. But I believe in the church. I mean, there are a lot of atheists, a-theists, people who don't believe there's God. But is there a movement of the odd churchists? Are there people around who say there is no church? There never was a church? The church doesn't exist? No. I mean, there's the church. Does it take a lot of faith to believe in the church? Yes. In fact, studies will tell you, and common sense will tell you, that one of the main reasons why people in this country don't embrace Christianity is not because they can't believe in God, but because they can't believe in the church. Or, put it another way. What the Bible says about the church, what the Bible says the church is or can be and should be, what the Bible says about the church is actually considerably harder for a lot of people to believe than what the Bible says about God. Put it another way. G.K. Chesterton very famously said, by far the most powerful argument against the truth of Christianity are Christians. Put it another way. Go to a skeptic. Go to a, I mean, some of you here are skeptical. Or certainly we're New Yorkers and we've got plenty of friends who are skeptical about Christianity. And ask them why and you'll get arguments. You'll say, well, you know, this about the Bible or this about God or the arguments of God. They'll say a number of things. But if you scratch underneath, the reason they have so much trouble believing in God is because they absolutely don't believe in the church. Christians have let them down. The church has disillusioned them. In other words, it takes a lot. A lot of faith. They get up and say, I believe in the church. A whole lot of faith. It is harder to believe what the Bible says that the church can be than it is to believe much of what the Bible says about who God is. And you really can't. The reason it's in the creed is because it's just practical as I've just shown you. Believing in the church, being able to handle the church, understanding the church, and believing God are unfortunately inextricably linked. You really are not going to be able to find God. You're going to be able to find God without dealing with the church somehow. And the average American, of course, now likes to say, I'm spiritual but I'm not religious. Now, what does that mean? It just seems like, you know, parsing words. But you know what I think it means? It means, I like God, I hate the church. I believe in God, but I can't believe in the church. And so we have to look at the church. Now today, I've looked at this passage and commentators, it's a long passage, of course, and commentators have said this chapter, which is the last chapter in the Gospel of John, is put here, the full range of commentators say it's put here to show us what the church should be. This is John's way. He's chosen this particular incident to show us what the church should be in the world. And if we look through here, here's what I'm going to show you. I'll just tick them off before we go through. First of all, especially where Jesus says, throw in your net. See that? Jesus shows us what the church is supposed to be. But then secondly, when he says, feed my lambs. Do you love me? Feed my lambs. He shows us why we'll never do it. See, first of all, when he says, throw your net in, we're seeing what the church should be. But then when he gets to Peter and says, do you love me? Feed my lambs. He's showing us that we'll never be that. We'll never do what he calls us to be. We'll never be what he calls us to be. But then thirdly, when he says to Peter, stretch out your hands and follow me. He shows us how it's possible through him to be. In other words, first he's going to show us what we should be. Secondly, why we can never be it. And thirdly, why in him we can. What we should be, why we never ever could really be it in ourselves. And this is the reason why there's so much failure in the world of people trying to be the church. But then thirdly, how in him we can be. And it's in these three places where he says, throw in your net. Feed my lambs. Stretch out your hands and follow me. Now, first of all, throw in your net. Now, one of the things that almost, like I said, all the commentators say is that this is a deliberate, this has been chosen because this is deliberately parallel to another incident. In Luke chapter 5, Jesus is in the boat with his disciples. And they are having trouble catching fish. And they go all night and they can't catch fish. And he says, I'll tell you what. Put your net in right over here one more time. And they say, oh, my goodness, you know, there's no fish out here. And they put it in and they're overwhelmed. He's in the boat. They can't find their fish. With him, they can. Now, what we have is almost exactly the same situation. They're out fishing. They're in the boat, you see. They can't find anything. It says they went out and they got into the boat. But that night they caught nothing. And again, Jesus calls out, friends, have you any fish? They know the answer. He says, throw your net over here. And they do. And they're overwhelmed with the catch. But what's the difference? He's not in the boat. Not only is he not in the boat, but they don't even really recognize him. And what this is getting across, and what amazed me, was that virtually all commentators, from the most skeptical to the most orthodox, virtually everybody agreed with it. The reason this is there, in fact, I mean, John remembers. The beloved disciple we know is the first one who says, this is the Lord. That must be the Lord. Because of the likeness of the two incidents, Luke 5 and John 20, 21. But here's the difference. In this case, he's not in the boat. He's not there, in a sense. They didn't even recognize him. And this is definitely John's way of saying it. And this is Jesus' way of saying it. Even if you don't recognize me physically, even if your physical senses don't see me, even if I'm not physically present, I still want you to do my work in the world, and I can still help you to do it. And therefore, what we have in this passage is a picture of what the church should be. But it's not as general as all that. It's even more specific. And that's... What is it that the world is called... that the church is called to be in the world? Now, why does Jesus happen to show up when they're out there? Why does he use this incident to teach them? Many of you will remember or know that when he first met them, they were fishing, and he walks up to them and he says, follow me, and I will make you to be... to become fishers of men. In other words, in the very beginning, when he calls them to be his followers, in other words, when he calls them not just to be regular old human beings, but the church. When he calls them out of their sort of mundane life into being the church, he says, I'll make you fishers of men. And clearly what's happening here, when he shows up and shows that even when he's away, he can still make them fishers, and he still do this with his power, he's saying, I will still help you do your mission. But what is the mission of the church then? Fishing. Now, listen, typically, and this isn't the... I want to take about five minutes here to kind of give you this big picture, but it's going to be a broad stroke. I'm not going to go into detail. It's typical for many Christians to read fishers of men and this sort of thing and say, ah, what does it mean to fish for Jesus? It means to convert people. And, well, it means a lot more than that. I'm not saying it really means less than that exactly, but it certainly means a lot more than that. Because fishing is kingdom language. Because fishing, is bringing the fish from one realm to another. The realm of the sea in the symbol... You have to... One of the things we have to realize, of course, is the ancient people just... Symbols were so much more important to them. They lived in symbols. And the sea was a symbol of chaos, a symbol of death, the symbol of disorder, the symbol of the cold, the dark. And Paul, there's one place where Paul defines what it means to become a Christian. In Colossians, he says, we were translated from the kingdom of this world, the kingdom of darkness, into the kingdom of his dear son. Now, that means more than just you get forgiven. Oh, yes, absolutely. It means you come in under a new lordship and you come from... A kingdom has a structure to it. And this is what Jesus is saying. I want you to be the community of the king. That's what he's saying to Christians. I don't just want you to bring people somehow into a personal relationship with me. I want you to bring them from one realm to another. I want you to bring them from one realm into another realm. Well, you say, well, how do you bring people into the kingdom? What is a kingdom? A kingdom is very simple. In fact, Jesus brings the whole thing together like this. In Matthew 5, verses 16, 17, in the Sermon on the Mount, he gets his disciples together and he says, you're a city set on a hill. Now, the last three months, I've actually been meditating on that. I've seen some things in here I've never seen before. When he says, you're to be a city, Jesus chose his metaphors very carefully. He says, when he says you're a family, he's saying one thing. When he says you're a nation, he's another. But when he says you're a city, here's what this means. In fact, let's get real personal. If you are a Christian and you are in Redeemer or any church in the city, if you're in New York City and you're a Christian, Jesus Christ is saying, you are called, I'm calling you to be an alternate New York City. You must be related to other Christians in such a way that you are a city within a city. You're a city on a hill. You're a city that the other city can see. What is that? What does that mean? Well, first of all, it means if we're going to be an alternate New York City, it means that we're going to have to have all the same kinds of people in our community that are out there. Now, think about this. It means if a church is too homogenous, it doesn't mean, for example, look, I'm preaching in English. That leaves out half of New York City right away. There's no doubt. We all know that. So I'm not saying that it's possible for every single local congregation to completely comprise the full diversity. I'm not saying that. The whole church of New York City, all the churches of New York City have to mirror all of New York in a way that no one church can. But in general, first of all, the first thing, it means we have to bring all kinds of people in there. And then, secondly, we must be inside the church, not just an aggregation of individuals. There has to be structure. How do we use our money? Do we share it? How do we use our sexuality? How do men and women treat one another? How do the races get along? See, out in the city, the races don't get along very well. Out in the city, the wealthy do not share their money with the poor. They're very paternalistic. Out in the city, there's all kinds of things that are going wrong. What does it mean to be a church? It doesn't just mean we come together for... What are you supposed to do in New York City? Just have meetings? You're supposed to be the alternate city. Jesus says, I want to show them a miniature version of what would a city look like where money wasn't an idol. What would it look like where... What would a city look like where looks and beauty wasn't an idol? Boy, in cities, that's so important to people. What would a city look like where men and women treat each other as people instead of as toys or objects? What would a city look like if I was the Lord instead of money or instead of status or instead of race or instead of culture? I was the king. That's what you must show them. Your mission is to draw people out of that other kingdom into this kingdom. That doesn't just simply mean... That just does not simply mean give them a personal relationship with me and have them come to meetings. It means one realm into another realm. And what it means is we are called to be the community of the king. We are called to be an alternate society. Not a ghetto society. Not taken away because we're on a hill. In fact, you have just... As embryonic as it is, look, who gets in the boat? Who gets in the boat? Thomas? And Nathaniel? Now, see, one of the things I love about John 21, and boy, if I had two hours, I could show you how everything in the whole rest of the book comes together. Nathaniel is a superstitious person. Nathaniel is a credulous person. There's a place where Jesus comes to him in John chapter 1 and says, Nathaniel, I saw you under the fig tree once. And, you know, Nathaniel had no idea that Jesus would know whatever happened under the fig tree, and we don't either. All we know is that Nathaniel says, you are the king of Israel. Jesus looks at him and said, what does he say? Thank you very much. No, no, he actually rebukes him. He says, you believe? Because I told you I saw you under the fig tree? I haven't even begun my signs. I haven't even begun my miracles. I haven't begun my teaching. He says, you will see greater things than this. On the other hand, Thomas is superstitious. Now, you know, superstitious comes from the Latin word overbelieving. You know, credulous, right? But superstitious is a word that my professor, Dr. Loveless, made up, and I've never heard anybody else use it, but I love it. I'm trying to get it going in the world, but it's not going. And superstitious means underbelief. And see, Thomas is a cynic. Thomas is a hardhead. Thomas just won't put faith in anything. Not unless I see his hands and the holes in his hands. You know, if the holes are back, I'll think it's somebody, you know, it's an imposter. I want to see the holes there. I want to put my fingers in the holes there. Now, you know, Nathaniel's and Thomas's hate one another in the world. You know? I mean, I'm more of a Thomas, and if you're a New Yorker, a lot of you are. When you watch television, the average network television, you say, well, there must be a lot of Nathaniels out there. Why would anybody like this? Why would anybody believe this? You hate Nathaniels. They live in the suburbs. They live out there. You see, they're always talking about everything's a blessing and everything's so wonderful. I'm a Thomas. Thomas hate Nathaniels. Nathaniels hate Thomas's. They get in the boat together. Look at Peter and John. John's a rationalist. Notice, you can even see it here. He's the first one to think. This must be the Lord. See, he's the first one to think, but Peter's the first one to act. John's a rationalist. Peter's an existentialist. John thinks, John's think that Peter's are impetuous and overreact to everything, and Peter's think John's are cowards and stick in the mud and always want to form a committee to study it instead of doing something about it. They don't get along. I mean, even here, this really isn't black and white. This isn't male and female. This is just a bunch of old fishermen, but even here, you can begin to see it. Jesus is saying, I've called you to become a community in which people get along who, outside of my lordship, would never get along. I call you to be a community in which the world can see that there's the way human society ought to be. And if we're not that kind of church, if we're not that kind of community, we are not being what God calls us to be. How are you doing? How are you doing on this? A word of application. One of the reasons why we, a lot of Christians, very, very puzzled by a lot of things the Bible tells us. It seems like so many of the things the Bible says are vague. Like, a lot of people, when they read where it says, do not commit adultery, they say, fine, I understand that. I know the difference between committing adultery and not. I know what sex is. I know my mother told me about it, and I understand that. But then the Bible says, don't be greedy. And by the way, there are at least 10 warnings against greed for every one warning about, you know, sexual sin. There are 10 warnings against greed. But how in the world do we know we're greedy? Where's the line? You see, I've had people over the years constantly saying, now, as long as I give 10% of my money away, I can spend everything else on the rest of my, you know, everything else I have on me, no matter what, and I'm not greedy, right? I say, well, no, I don't know about that. Well, what's the rule? Tell me what the rule is. But you don't realize, and this is one of the problems with the English language, you have no idea how many of the ethical exhortations in the Bible are plural. Because in English, outside of the South, outside of the Southern United States, Southern English has a difference between you singular and you plural, right? It's you all. But the rest of the English language doesn't have that. The Old English, in fact, the King James Bible's better because it was a difference between thee, which is singular, and ye, who is plural. At least it was there. You realize how many times it does not say you. For example, it doesn't say rejoice in the Lord always, and again, I say rejoice. It doesn't actually say you. You singular must rejoice. I was reading an interesting book where somebody was sitting there saying, I hate that verse because I try to rejoice all the time and I can't. And the Bible study leader who understood Greek said, well, what do you mean? Well, I always have to rejoice and I'm not that kind of person. And the Bible study leader said to her, well, you have to understand it doesn't tell you have to rejoice. Yes, it does. It says you all have to rejoice. It says to, to the body. And you see, you'll never be able to rejoice all by yourself all the time. But if you, if you are connected enough to other Christians, there's always somebody who'll pick the, you know, his up. Or at least is in their right mind. Or then in Hebrews chapter 13, verse 5, it says, let you, literally it says, let your way of life be without greed. But it's you all. Let y'all's life be without greed. Way of life. That's what it's saying. Now, here's what this means. We're never going to work out greed individually. We're going to get so angry because the Bible's not, it's not, it doesn't tell you to work out your greed as an individual. What it says is, get together and talk about your money. Be honest. Community. Friendship. Talk to other Christians with respect about how much money you've got and how much you're spending on yourself. And show the world a community in which money is not an idol and people share in eye-popping proportions. You're never going to deal with greed as an individual. The Bible calls us to be a community of the kingdom. How are you doing? You can't be a city by yourself. You can't be a family by yourself. You can't be a church by yourself. You're called to be a city. You can only do that with Christians. Not just Christians you go to meetings with, but Christians that you know and you're related to. There's a structure to your relationship. There's a structure to your community. But, well, let's just end the service right there. Okay? I can say now, go out there and do it. And some of you are going to say, you know, I didn't realize how hard this was being a Christian, but I'm going to do it or die trying. And guess what? You will. Because Jesus Christ, eminently reasonable Jesus Christ, eminently realistic Jesus Christ, shows us why the church is failing all over the place. In other words, that's what we're called to be. To be the community of the king. But secondly, Jesus shows us why we're constantly failing. Look at this verses 15 to 17. Now, you know, if any of you have been around Redeemer for a long time, you'll vaguely recall, I think Tim preached on this chapter once before, even twice before. Yeah. But always looking at how Jesus leads Peter to repentance. And how Jesus leads Peter to renew his life and to get recommissioned. And by the way, as a sermon, that's a great idea. It certainly deserves a whole sermon or two. But that's not what I'm going to do today. I'm not looking at it this way. However, I do want to see something else that we learn when he says, look carefully, in verse 15, he says, when they were done, when they finished eating, he didn't go to the side. He didn't go off to one side or the other. In other words, he's in public. They're all sitting around. You have to remember this. They all hear him do this. And then he says, Simon, son of John, do you love me, do you truly love me more than these? Now, what's these? Well, what's around him? Nets? Do you love me more than these nets? No. Do you love me more than these fish and this bread? No. Do you love me more than all these people around here? And then, yes, Lord, he said, you know that I love you. Jesus said, feed my lambs. Now, what he's doing is he asks him three times, do you love me? He's humbling him, of course. He's asking him three times, which match the three times Peter denied him. But rather than look at what he's doing just to Peter and how repentance works and all that, what is he doing to you and me? I'll tell you what he's doing to you and me. He says to Peter, feed my lambs. The basic building block of this huge edifice I just sketched for you, the basic building block of radical community that shatters the world's prejudices and stereotypes, the basic building block is really very down to earth. And I'm going to be able to give you a very clear definition of it. It's a true friend. If we want to have this, if we want to do the mission of Jesus in the world, if we want to change the world, we have got to be true friends. You, I, have to learn how to be a true friend to all kinds of people around us. Not just with one another, actually, with people outside the church too, but that's the key, a friend. Now, what is a friend? It's interesting. Why do I bring that up? When Jesus Christ appears on the beach, notice what he says. Verse 5. He says, friends. Now, what's interesting about this is that all the different translations will give you different translations because literally the word he uses there is not the typical word for friend. It's not the word Adelphos, from which we get our word Philadelphia, you know, which is the word brotherly love. It's not that. It's the word Paideia, from which we get our word pediatrician or pediatrics because it's the word for children. But if you translate it literally like the RSV does, the Revised Standard Version does, it really doesn't make any sense. When I got my RSV out, Jesus is on the beach and he walks up and he says, children. And of course, what? Well, the commentators all agree, this is colloquial. And in every single culture, you'd have to translate it differently. It is the most familiar, intimate language that you would use with your closest friends. It's slang. Now, for example, the one commentator, says, if you were trying to get this across to a British crowd, you'd say, Jesus was saying, lads. But, if it was a bunch of guys in the inner city, it was like Jesus coming up on the beach and saying, dudes. Or coming to somebody and saying, kids. Or guys. And it is incredibly slang, colloquial, intimate language. Jesus Christ shows up and he calls them in the most intimate and most colloquial way, friend. Now, this has been done before. In John chapter 15, verse 7, he says, in that whole area up there, earlier in the chapter, he talks to them about being friends. He says, I'm about to make you my friends. You know why? He says, first of all, I'm going to tell you my heart. Servants do not know what their masters are doing. But I'm going to tell you my heart. And also, he said, masters don't die for their servants. But I'm going to lay down my life for you. Now, right there is a definition of a true friend. You want to hear it? Here it goes. I'll just take a minute on it. A true friend always lets you in, never lets you down. Always lets you in. He says, in other words, a master and a servant. He says, you're not going to be a servant. I'm going to call you a friend because I'm going to confide in you. I'm going to be transparent to you. A true friend always lets you in. You're transparent. You're open. You're vulnerable. Another way to put it is, are you open or do you spin people? You spin them. You control what they see. Do you refuse to, are you really artless or is everything, you control what they see? That's the first thing. A true friend always lets you in. Secondly, a true friend never lets you down. See, Jesus says, I'm going to lay down my life for you. Always lets you, never lets you down. And so, the first question is, are you open? Do you let people in? Or do you spin? Do you spin them? The second question is, are you unconditionally there for them? Never let them down. Or do you use them? Do you spin them and do you use them? Or do you always let them in and never let them down? What do I mean by use? Well, very simple. Are you in your relationships for what you can get out of it? Are you in your relationships with people so that you can feel good about yourself or you can get respect or you can get to your agenda? Are you using people or are you there for them? For their sake, not for your sake. Now, I know how I answer this question the first time I hear it. I'm through. Whenever I've read this in the past, you read a lot about this in the book of Proverbs. You read a lot about this in John 15. A good friend is someone who always lets you in and never lets you down. And when I think of my relationships with my best friends, I say, I'm not bad at that. And I'll bet you some of you are saying the same thing. But wait. Wait. Jesus says, feed my lambs. Some years ago, well, I recently, I recently heard a tape by Dick Lucas. Dick Lucas is a retired Anglican minister. I listen to his tapes a lot. And he's got a very, it was a very interesting story. He was a minister in London, but he came to Stony Brook School about 20, 30 years ago, which is a boarding school out on Long Island. And he spoke there for two or three days. And he said, on the second day, it was told to the student body that if you wanted to see the preacher and you wanted to go and talk to him about your concerns, your interests, you could just sign up. Sign up and go. To his concern, he told them that if you wanted to go see the preacher, you could get out of class. Well, he says, this was a bad idea. Because he suddenly, he got up the second day and he realized that day he was going to see little kids pretty much all day. Now, Dick Lucas is a bachelor. And he says on the tape, he says, how do I put this? He says, I find children trying. And he, as he went through the morning, he was just very, very difficult for him. Because one, after the other, trivial things and silly things and, you know, can you imagine this? This older British bachelor, you know, with this incredibly plummy Oxford accent, sitting there with this, I don't know, you know, American Valley girl who's, you know, 13 years old who's sitting there saying, and, you know, and he doesn't even know I'm alive. And he's sitting here and he's saying, he's trying, I said, don't roll your eyes. Look at the clock. And he says, he got to noon and he realized he had a whole afternoon to go and he didn't know what he was going to do and he sat down and he just opened the Bible. He's like, I got to read something to feed my soul, get some fortitude. And he got to John chapter 21 and his eyes lit on feed my lambs. And he says, I was shaken. First of all, he says, feed means don't get in here to be fed, but feed. Secondly, feed my lambs. Interesting. Not feed my lions. Lambs are weak and always need something. Not feed my palominos. Sheep are ungainly and ugly, actually. I know this from driving around Wales and Scotland when you see them up close. They're not the way they look in the Hallmark reading cards. And thirdly, feed my lambs. He doesn't even say feed my cats. Cats give you affection. Sheep never give you affection. And then he realized it says, feed my lambs. Not the people you choose. Not the ones you choose. And he was just laid, the people I send you, the ones that I put in your road, the people made in my image, the people who I care about. And suddenly, here's what he realized. And here's what I want you to realize. It's not, if you want to know whether you're a true friend, if you want to know whether or not you really let people in and you really, rather than, or that you really love people and you're a good friend rather than use people, don't look at the people you've chosen. Ask how you choose your friends. And that's what devastated him and that's what devastated me as I thought about it. Do you go to the people who are unattractive to you? Do you go to people who are of a different class or a different educational status or a different political, cut from a different political cloth? Do you go to people that really don't make you feel cool to be sitting with? At all. Are you, you see, are you willing to go after the lambs? Are you willing to go after his lambs? And he was just smitten. He was just knocked out. And I'll just, let me just tell you, you will never, ever be able to be a true friend. You can, I know I do and you do. Some of us are pretty good at relationships and we're sort of pastoral and we listen to people and all that sort of thing. We're never going to be able to do it. And here's the reason why. He says, Peter, do you love me more than these? There it is. Peter must have been cut to the quick because Peter must remember the day he said in Mark chapter 14, verse 29, what does he say? He said, Lord, maybe everybody else will betray you, but I will never betray you. Look at all these people. I'm better than all of them. And the day he said that, what the foundations of his life were revealed. Here he was following Jesus. Here he was very religious, studying Jesus' teaching, but he didn't understand the gospel. Jesus wasn't his savior. He was using Jesus. He's like those, those little twits who get close to somebody, important. And they really, they do real well. They get close to the teacher. Remember them? Or they get close to the boss. Remember them? And when they're with the boss, or they're with the teacher, they are on their best behavior and they're doing everything right. But when they get away, their attitude is, don't mess with me. I know the boss. I feel superior to everybody else. And this is what Peter was doing. Peter looked down his nose at other people because he was his own savior. There was a pride at his heart because there was an emptiness in the heart of his soul. And here's what's interesting. He was using Jesus. He was using Jesus rather than serving Jesus. He was his own savior rather than Jesus being his savior. He didn't know his own heart. He wasn't transparent. He wasn't even transparent to himself. And he let everybody down. Everybody. Saved his own skin. Not just betraying Jesus, really. Knowing that they could all have been killed. He was turning his back on absolutely everybody. He completely let everybody down. Because you see, in his heart, there was a hole. Your name, never going to be a friend, Jesus says. The lambs expose you. You're never going to be a true friend to people on which this whole edifice is built. Well, then thirdly, and lastly, then what can we do? How can it happen? He turns to Peter and he says, Peter, now look carefully. He says, someday, you will stretch out your hands and go someplace you don't want to go. And then he says, follow me. What is that? Well, it tells you. John says, Jesus was telling Peter, the kind of death he was going to suffer. What does that mean? Peter was going to be crucified. If you were ever going to be a friend, Jesus says, you're going to have to see, you have to follow me. What does follow me mean? Jesus is saying, I had my hand stretched out. I was taken away. This is the point. The point is, if you're ever going to be a friend, you're going to need an incredible friend. You're going to need a perfect friend. What is a perfect friend? First of all, that friend would be someone so high and so attractive and so magnificent that to have his love would mean you'd never have to be mercenary in any of your other relationships ever again. You know what I mean by mercenary? You would never sit down with somebody and say, do I feel cool being with a person like you? No, I don't. I don't like being with a person like you. I don't really want to be in a crowd like this. I want to go find somebody who is fulfilling to me. You would never do that again. Why? Because you'd be so fulfilled by what he thinks of you and so fulfilled by what he, how he loves you and so fulfilled by how much he values you, you don't have to be mercenary anymore with your friendships. You go for the lambs. You go for my lambs, his lambs, not just yours. You see? You go for feeding rather than being fed. Okay? You'd have to have somebody who was so magnificent to know that you had his friendship meant you didn't have to be mercenary with any of other friendships ever again. But how would you be absolutely sure that he loved you like that? And the answer is Jesus Christ says, look at me. I'm the only friend who lets you all the way in. His arms are open on the cross. They're nailed open for you. That's as vulnerable as you can get. And he went to the cross even though in the garden God came to him and said, either you'll go to hell or they'll be lost. Choose. And Jesus said, I'll go to hell. Now here's a friend, he says, I am the only friend that lets you all the way in and I'm the only friend who will never, ever let you down and only when he becomes your friend, only when you know that friendship will you be freed from the self-salvation, from the need to fill up that hole the way Peter did. Be freed from the pride that destroys community in order to really be that true friend. And if you're a true friend, to about 10 people in this church, true friend, and if you are friendly to everybody you meet, opening up, being unconditional, and if you are a very, very good friend to 10 people outside of the faith, and if you are very, very friendly to all kinds of other people, you will build the community of the king. Well, somebody says, exactly how do I do that? Actually, I would like you to think about this. If you look at all the rest, of the whole passage, there's all kinds of practical ways that works out. And here's what they are. Actually, I'm going to tell you what I'm going to do. I'm going to give you 30 seconds on about four or five. Number one, you're going to be, if you really want to change the world through friending people, number one, feast with him. He says, sit down and eat with me. You're going to, which of course, in Revelation 3, Jesus says, I am knocking at the door of your heart, open up, and I will fellowship with you. I will sup with you. In other words, it's one thing to know what I just said. Maybe you were even inspired. But unless it becomes a living reality in your life, through prayer and through worship, unless you find this becoming real to you in the Lord's Supper, unless you find it real to you in corporate prayer, unless you find it real to you in true experience, you're going to continue to be mercenary in your friendships. It's as simple as that. And you won't be part of building that kingdom. The first thing is you have to feast with him. Second thing is you have to fail with him. Notice, Jesus Christ said, basically, three times, he says, do you love me? Three times. Now, what is he doing? He's recalling the denials. So what is Jesus really saying? Three times, this is what he's saying. Peter, you know you failed me. And every time Peter's saying, I know. Peter, you know you failed me. And Peter does not say, why are you doing this to me? Why are you doing this to me? I know. Peter, you know you failed me. And Peter says, I know. But that's not all that happens. Every time he says, you failed me, right? And every time Peter does not get quiet, every time Peter does not say, why are you bringing this up again? Every time Peter says, I couldn't help it. Every time Peter basically comes back and says, yeah, I know. But I really still want to be, I still want to love you. Every time he says, yeah, you failed me. And Peter says, yes, I know. Peter, Jesus really says, therefore, feed my lambs. What's the relationship between feed my lambs and you're a failure? You're a failure. I know. You're in charge. That's what Jesus is saying. The word feed, by the way, the second and third time is the word for shepherd. It's the word poimenos. It's the word pastor. Three times. Every time Jesus says, you failed, and Peter essentially doesn't get mad, but says, yeah, but I still want to love you. I still love you. Jesus says, now you're qualified. See, if you fail, and Jesus Christ is your boss that you're trying to live up to so that you can feel superior to other people. In other words, if you're a religious person and you don't understand the gospel, failure will make you either haughty or despise, or put you in despair, but it will not make you more loving, less mercenary, more free in your relationships. Jesus Christ says, fail with me. Fail with me. Fail and let the gospel show you that you're more indebted to me than ever, and you're more loved than you ever thought. So you have to feast with him. You have to fail with him. Okay? I guess thirdly, you have to follow him. One thing that's interesting is when Peter comes to Jesus and says, oh, I'm going to die, huh? I'm going to be crucified, huh? Then he turns to John, the beloved, and he says, what about him? Which has got to be one of the most comic places in the entire Bible. And what is Jesus doing? What does Jesus say? Jesus says what Aslan says at the end of the Narnia Tales several times to other people. Jesus says, I only tell you your story. I don't tell you anybody else's. Let me tell you how that is going to make you a good friend. First of all, you're going to realize that Jesus Christ has got a plan for the person you're talking to and you don't know it. And you don't need to know it. So you're not going to be able to sit in judgment on that person too well, are you? You're going to treat that person as someone on a path and you're going to treat that person as someone and you're just going to try your very best to help that person on the path but you're not going to say I know what your path is and I know what you're doing right and wrong. Oh, absolutely not. You're going to be very careful, very careful. Okay? So if you want to be a great friend, feast with him, fail with him, follow and get to know your story. Last of all, just fly to him. You ever notice the most amazing thing? Peter does already understand the gospel when this passage starts. You know why? In Luke chapter 5 when he realizes that Jesus Christ is the eternal son of God, filled with power, in Luke chapter 5 when the great set of fish come into the boat, what does he do? He falls on his knees and says, get away from me. He says, depart from me, I'm a sinful man. See, he doesn't understand the gospel. He hates the idea of failure. He hates the idea of thinking of himself as small or sinful. This time, same thing happens. Jesus reveals his majesty. Big draught of fish, huge pile of fish. What does he do? He puts his coat on, by the way, which is a very weird thing to do. Most of the time you take off your clothes when you jump into the water. He puts on his cloak and the main reason, the only possible reason why that's in there is because somebody remembered it. If you were making it up, you wouldn't say he got dressed and swam. But that's what he did. He hardly knew what to do. All he knew was he wanted his coat, he put it on and he flies to Jesus as fast as he possibly can. The first time, when he sees the very same miracle, he wants to get away. The second time, when he sees this miracle, he wants to get as close to Jesus as possible. Why? He doesn't know. But something's happened. He really begins to understand the gospel. He knows that Jesus died for him and all he knows is, gosh, maybe Jesus is going to rebuke me when he sees me. Maybe he's going to make me go back through over the denials. Who knows what's going to happen? All I know is I need to be near him. Just fly to him. Just go to him. Say, I don't understand. Some of you are here saying, I'm not even sure I'm a Christian. Go to him. Fly. He might make you remember some bad things. But it's only to make you into someone great. Fail with him and you'll be something great. Peace with him. Fail with him. Follow him. Fly to him. And he'll make you his friend and he'll make you everybody else's friend as well. Let's pray. Father, wow. What a panorama. Forgive us for not being the church and yet we thank you that you understand why it's so hard to be the church. And we thank you that in Christ we can be. Help us to be a community of the king. But not so lofty. Help us to be a true friend. Help us to be transparent and committed. Help us to be unconditionally there for people without being choosy about it. Help us to be all those things because we see that Jesus Christ, your son, was truly our friend. His hands were stretched out. And his hands were nailed open. He led us all the way in. He will never let us go. He will never let us down. Let us be moved by that and changed by that so we truly can be the church. So that someday we really can say, I believe in the church because I believe in you. In Jesus' name we pray.
