Before I read the scripture, I want to make one announcement because just so Charlie doesn't have so many things to do after the last part and get on to the rest of the service. I want to, some of you may have already heard this and were fairly disappointed to announce that, as you know, we've been mentioning how excited we were that we found a Westside morning site for a worship service at Martin Luther King High School. and we announced it for three weeks because we were approved in writing. We had the canceled check for our deposit. We had a permit. We were officially approved. But someone higher up in the school district has revoked it this week. And that means what? Well, it means we continue to look for another site, and we're going to probably appeal inside the school district to see whether they might overturn that or change their minds. but it does mean that at least we're not going to start in May the morning service on the west side. You'll get a newsletter about that. I'm afraid there'll be some confusion because it takes time for it to get around, and I'm very, very, very sorry for the confusion. But, you know, we figure God's working in this somehow, and in fact that's part of what the sermon's about, so let's go to it. Scripture reading. We're looking at St. Matthew's Passion, which, of course, is the gospel writer Matthew's account of the last days of Jesus, his suffering. And you know, the word passion originally meant suffering. It doesn't mean that anymore much. And so let's take a look at this next passage, which is Matthew's account of the arrest of Jesus Christ. And I'm only going to read in Matthew 26 from 47 to 56, from 47 to 56. While he was still speaking, Judas, one of the 12, arrived. With him was a large crowd armed with swords and clubs sent from the chief priests and the elders of the people. Now the betrayer had arranged a signal with them. The one I kiss is the man. Arrest him. Going at once to Jesus, Judas said, Greetings, Rabbi, and kissed him. Jesus replied, Friend, do what you came for. And then the men stepped forward, seized Jesus, and arrested him. With that, one of Jesus' companions, who we know from the book of John, One of Jesus' companions reached for his sword, drew it out, and struck the servant of the high priest, cutting off his ear. Put your sword back in its place, Jesus said to him, for all who draw the sword will die by the sword. Do you think I cannot call on my father and he will at once put at my disposal more than twelve legions of angels? But how then would the scriptures be fulfilled that say it must happen in this way? At that time Jesus said to the crowd, Am I leading a rebellion that you have come out with swords and clubs to capture me? Every day I sat in the temple courts teaching, and you did not arrest me. But this has all taken place that the writings of the prophets might be fulfilled. And then all the disciples deserted him and fled. This is God's word. now Matthew has a very interesting method that it's only beginning to dawn on me what that is Matthew is of course giving us the account of Jesus' sufferings but in every event we see that Matthew is not just a reporter but he's also a teacher because embedded in every one of the descriptions of the events of Jesus' suffering by Jesus that interpret his suffering, that explain what it means. I've actually come to realize, as I've been working on these messages on Matthew, I've actually come to realize there's a certain danger to just describing the sufferings of Jesus and the death of Jesus and just being moved by it emotionally.

What's so intriguing is that anybody who hears a description of torture and suffering and death, any like that is going to move you. It's just going to move you. But what's intriguing, as I was looking at the passages here, it's intriguing to see that the details, the gory details are almost not there. It says three different places in Matthew, Mark, and John. It says that Jesus had a crown of thorns put on his head, but there's no description. None of the narrators say, and the blood dripped down his face. Nothing like that. Now, I remember, and I meant it with a little bit of embarrassment. When I was starting out as a preacher, when I got to these passages on the crucifixion, the passion, the suffering of Christ, I used to fill in those things. I used to say, well, we know from history books what crucifixion was like. This happened, and that happened, and his face was bloody, and it was purple from being beaten upon. There was spit on his cheeks. I remember my wife Kathy, when we were younger people, and I was a dumber preacher, and she was a less discreet wife about it. On the way home, she would say, why did you have to get into all that gore? And you know what? It's been very convicting to me this week, as I realize none of it's there. It's not there. It's almost as in the passages of the Gospels. It's almost as if the Gospel writers are saying, you don't need to have your heart wrung by the fact of his suffering. understand the meaning of it. It's not so important to be moved by the fact that he died on the Cross. You need to understand the Theology of the Cross. You need understand what it accomplished. You need to understand why he did it. And you must not confuse being moved by the fact of his suffering with understanding the meaning of it. You mustn't confuse those two things. because to be moved moves you emotionally. But the only thing that actually transforms your life is to understand the cross, not just to be moved by it. I mean, the historical question we've got in front of us is this. In ancient cultures, the cross was a universal symbol of shame, defeat, pain, and obscenity. And the early Christians looked at that symbol of shame, defeat, and pain, and obscenity and were transformed by it into a people of love, joy, and power. How come? Why? The answer couldn't be that they just looked at Jesus dying. Lots of people saw him dying and nothing happened. You have to understand why. And the words of Jesus embedded in these accounts is what we have to really look at. You need to know why. There's a very weird place in Luke 23 where Jesus says he turns to a group of women who are following after him, weeping for him,

and he turns to them and says something very weird. He says, it's almost never preached on because it's so odd. He turns and says, daughters of Jerusalem, do not weep for me, weep for yourselves.

You know what? I'm afraid most people that come to church during these Lenten seasons, and they come to church at Good Friday, and they hear about the sufferings of Jesus, and they're moved, they're more like the daughters of Jerusalem. Because what Jesus was saying is, you're just moved sentimentally. You don't get it. You're moved in some general way that I'm dying, but you don't understand why. You don't understand the theology of what I'm doing. You don't understand what I accomplished on the cross. He says, you shouldn't be weeping for me. You should be weeping repentance for yourself. You should understand I'm doing it for you. You should understand why I'm doing it for you. You should understand why I have to do it for you. But they don't. They're just weeping for him. He says, weep for you. Understand. So that's really what you have. I'm starting to take that long a time. And yet I realize it's dangerous just to simply look at Jesus dying and not say, what is really going on? What is he doing it for? What did he accomplish? It's the theology of the cross that transform you, not just an emotional expression and not just an emotional response. Now what you have in this particular narrative of the arrest is three pieces. You see there's a betrayal of Judas, 47 to 50, with a statement by Jesus. is the uh... the impetuousness and impulsiveness of peter and a statement by Jesus and then there's Jesus turning to the crowd and a rebuke to the crowd and each case Jesus is teaching us something about the Cross and his death because everything in all of these events all of these descriptive uh... narrative passages are all about the Cross. They are all about what does his death mean and the three things we are going to see here In the Word of Judas, we see that from the cross flows a life of committed life. From the Word of Peter, we see from the cross flows an upside down life, a life of upside down values, at least as the world sees it. And lastly, from the cross flows a calm life, a committed life, an upside down life, and a calm life. From the Word of Judas, the Word of Peter, and the Word of the crowd. Look, number one, Word of Judas. Now, in a way, the story of the betrayal of Judas not just here. You know, these other, well, the story of the betrayal of Judas sort of is a thread through a number of the different passages. But here's what we're learning in the gospel narratives about Judas. Many people think that Judas was the worst sinner ever. See, here he comes. While he was still speaking, Judas arrived with him a large crowd armed with swords and clubs. Now the betrayer had arranged a signal, but when I kiss as the man, arrest him. And going up to Jesus, Judas said, greetings, Rabbi, and kissed him. Now, there are plenty of traditional people like Dante in his book, The Inferno, who says that Judas was the worst sinner ever. Because if you, if in Dante, you go down to the deepest part of hell, where there's a lake of ice, by the way, did you know that? Dante thought that the deepest part of hell had a lake of ice in it, not fire. Probably didn't like spring snowstorms. Dante didn't. And underneath the lake of ice is Judas, and he's being devoured by Satan all the time because betraying Jesus was the worst of all. A lot of modern thinkers, from Tim Rice in Jesus Christ Superstar to a lot of modern reconstructions of the historical life of Christ, modern people tend to be more sympathetic to Judas, and they see him as sort of being a complex, you know, maybe tormented person who meant well and so forth. But when you actually read what Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John are saying about Judas, you'll see that neither of those are right. Neither are right. On the one hand, Judas is not a kind of admirable person who means best. You know what's interesting about this kiss? In a book called the Anchor Bible, which is a very, very highly respected historical scholarly book, there's a scholar, a Jewish scholar named Moses Aberbach that sheds some light on this. He says this. He says, In any group of teacher and disciples in those days, the disciple was never permitted to ever greet his teacher first. first, since this implied equality. Got that? In that culture, at that time, he said, when you came up, if you were in a disciple, you never greeted a teacher first, ever. That was equality. He says, therefore, Judas' sign was not just a signal to the mob, but it was a deliberate insult and the final repudiation of his relationship with Jesus. In other words, when Judas came up and said, Hail, Master, he was not just, you know, giving them a sign. He was also saying to Jesus, I'm as I've come out on top. I've always resented all these, your claims to authority. Now, that's not a tortured, well-meaning person. But on the other hand, the whole point of the gospel narrators is to tell us that what Judas did is very normal. It is not unique. It is not rare. It's not for the worst person in the face of the earth. This is incredibly easy to do. In Matthew 26, which a little further up in the same chapter, you might even remember this, that when Jesus looks out at his disciples and said, one of you will betray me, what do they say? It's interesting. Wouldn't you think the disciples would have said, I mean, think of the disciples. Such paragons of self-knowledge, right? Such spiritual wisdom and insight, right? No, of course not. So what would you think they would have said? One of you will betray me. You would have said they all would have said, not me, not me, probably him. But they all say, almost all of them, at least it says most of them said, is it me? Because they knew. Even they knew their own hearts enough to know. See, what is Judas doing? Judas is selling Jesus. Of course, we all know about the 30 pieces of silver. He's selling Jesus. But let's stand back for a minute and ask ourselves, now what does that mean? What does it mean to sell something? You sell something, I mean, like if you own stock, you keep it as long as what? long as it's making you, as long as it's profitable. What happens if it starts losing you money? You sell it. What does it mean to sell Jesus versus serve Jesus? What is the difference between selling and serving? They are the exact opposite. Selling Jesus, selling the Lord means you make him a means to the ultimate end of your happy life. Whereas in serving Jesus, you make your life a means to the ultimate end of pleasing him.

Satan, in the book of Job, puts it perfectly. There's a dialogue between God and Satan in the very beginning of the book of Job where God says to Satan, have you seen my servant Job? There is none like him in all the earth. And what does Satan say? Satan says, does Job serve God for nothing? Now, right there, you got it. God says, Job is a servant. He serves me. Satan says, no, he's not a server. He's a seller. He's with you as long as he's turning a prophet. In other words, what Satan says right here is, he is not your servant. He is religious in order for you to be his servant. Now, as it turns out, in the end, Satan was wrong. But he's put his finger on it. it. What happens when you've really lived, as far as you can tell, a pretty good life, and you've really tried to do your best by the Christian faith, and some major prayer of yours is not answered? You ask for something that you think is reasonable, logical, something you really feel honestly you deserve, and you ask for it. It's very important to you, and it really means the world to you, and it's turned down. And what do you say? Well, I know what you say. You say, say, what good is all this Christian faith? What good is all this refraining? Why have I done all this and then he won't even answer me? What good is it to be a Christian? And that's seller language. That's seller heart language. What you're saying is, my happiness, my agenda is the non-negotiable. That's never sold. That's always there. But if I can't, if God isn't the way to get to it, see, God is the means, and you are the end. That's selling. And every one of the disciples, even the stupid disciples, knew that they were on the verge of that all the time. See, even in a real server, there's always a seller. There's always two natures, right? There's the old and the new. And even in the best servers, there's a seller. And we're always wrestling, and we're always fighting. Now, when Jesus says to Judas right here, says, friend, do what you came for. Now, you know what? I'm not, we could easily spend five minutes on trying to understand that. In the book of Matthew, the word friend is always a patient warning. The word friend is never used except in warning. You can go back and take a look at it if you ever want. There's a place, it's mainly in the parables where the king says to the man who comes without a wedding garment, friend, what are you doing in here without a wedding garment? Or when the, uh, there's a couple other places. In the book of Matthew, the word friend is patient,

And it's not just Jesus saying, you can't be a seller, but all of the gospel narrators put Judas up as an alternative to Mary. Not only Matthew, but Mark and John make a pretty, and I think Luke, no, I think Luke is not there, but you know, there's a place where Mary of Bethany, the sister of Martha, takes an incredibly valuable piece of ointment, a bottle of ointment, on Jesus' feet. Remember that? We preached on that this year. Pours that on Jesus' feet. It's so incredibly expensive. It's like their whole family net worth and it's her way of saying I give you everything. I put everything at your disposal. And who is it there that's grumpy about it? Who's grumpy about it? Who says, what's she doing that for? Who is it? It's Judas. And this is the way that all the gospel navigators are saying that even though you know you're struggling, you know you're struggling between being a seller a server. There really is nothing in the middle. You are either Judas or you're Mary. You either say to Jesus Christ, I will obey you unconditionally. I will make you the supreme thing in my life. Or else, you're Judas. See, Judas is not the worst sinner in the world. Judas, that's why even the disciples knew. I've got the same problem. You either are saying to him, I will obey you no matter what the consequences. Practically, I will obey you no matter what the consequences socially and culturally. I will obey you even when you tell me something that goes completely against my feelings and my desires. I will obey you utterly, unconditionally. I'll make you the supreme thing in my life. Like Mary, pouring everything out. Or else you're Judas. Because, see, if you have any conditions, if you say, I'll obey you if, what you're really saying is as long as you're profiting me, I'll stick with you. to lose, I've got to dump my Jesus stock. And you're Judas. Now, how do you get to the place of being utterly committed to him? See, Jesus is calling Judas, but he's calling us all. In fact, the gospel writers are saying, you need to live not a life of, you can't live a split life of being committed some to this and this. You can't live a life of divided loyalties. You need to be completely and wholly and totally committed to him. Or else, you're a Judas, you're a seller. You're serving him not for nothing, but for something, which means you're selling him. The answer is what? The cross. The thing you got to realize about all of these passion narratives is they're all telling us about the cross. If you just come, if you would leave here today saying, okay, I really need to be less indifferent about my Christianity. I need to be less, I need to be less lukewarm. I need to be more passionate. I need to be more wholehearted. I need to make it a higher priority. I will do it. It won't be good enough.

Stoicism, willpower, self-effort won't do it. The only way you will ever become a whole person, a person of being utterly committed to one thing, a person of one thing, is you look at the cross. Why? The cross. Why? Because look at the cross, and here's what the cross tells you. Jesus' commitment to you was unconditional. Jesus' commitment to you was whole. Jesus' commitment to you had no ifs. The cross means that Jesus did not say, Father, I'll love them if. I'll love them as long as. I'll love them unless. No unlesses. No as long as. No ifs. No ands. No buts. The cross means his commitment to you complete and therefore the only way, but the natural way to respond to that is to be absolutely committed back. You can't dabble in Jesus. He can't be an enrichment project. He can't be one of four or five things that kind of helps you along. Why? Well, years ago I listened to a sermon and the minister said this. He was preaching on Romans 12.1. It was on a tape I heard years ago. I think I still have the tape around, but I've never forgotten. He says, how do you come to grips with someone who's given himself utterly for you without you giving yourself utterly to him? He says, to hold back anything is not just an outrage to the moral sense, it's the crucifixion of the intelligence. It's as stupid as it is wicked. And he was expounding Romans 12.1, which says, make yourself, make your body a whole burnt offering. In other words, make your entire self an offering to him, which, in the old authorized version, Paul says, Romans 12.1, which is your reasonable service. Your reasonable service. To give him absolutely everything. No conditions. Highest priority is just reasonable. Because of the cross. Not because of anything else. The cross means he was committed to you without conditions and the only possible way to know and the natural way to know someone like that is to be committed to him without conditions. No conditions at all. So the first thing flows, a committed life, a whole life, a life that's not split up into competing concerns. Secondly, the second is Jesus talking to Peter. And here we have a very, very famous, but I think very seldom understood statement. Peter, of course, takes, well, we don't know that, we know it's Peter from John chapter 18, where we're told it's Peter who did this. And of course, does that fit in with what you know of Peter? Yes. Okay, very impulsive. It says, with that, one of Jesus' companions reached the servant of the high priest, cutting off his ear. Put your sword back in its place, Jesus said, and here we go. For all who draw the sword will die by the sword. What does that mean? Well, what did Peter do? The sword, of course, is a symbol in the Bible, is a symbol today, of force and judgment. And what Peter was doing was he was sweeping out the sword to what? To help Jesus with his messianic program. To help Jesus set up his kingdom. Jesus Christ came to save the world. He understood that. And to set up his kingdom. He understood that. And he said, well, of course the thing to do is to bring out these weapons. Now Jesus says, put them back. All who live by the sword will die by the sword. What is he saying? Now, of course, Christian pacifists, and I have a lot of sympathy with Christian pacifism, They love this verse because they feel like this teaches pacifism. And I think when you, when I'm done expounding it, I don't think that really does justice to what he's saying. But when I'm done expounding it, if you're a pacifist, you'll be pretty happy anyway. But the fact is, I don't think that at a moment like this, Jesus is saying, oh, by the way, Peter, don't forget what I always said. No war. I mean, I don't think he's talking about pacifism here. Does that make sense in this context, in these circumstances? Everything he's talking about his death where he's going. Peters' pulling out the sword is not just breaking the no war rule. It's a misunderstanding of the work of Jesus. So surely that's really what he's really talking about. Not only that, if Jesus says all who take up the weapons of war will die by the weapons of war. Do you really think that's really true? Is he really just talking about physical fighting here?.. ...because if he really is, then he really is telling you the truth?.. Because the fact of the matter is, if you're going to take that literally, it's not true. Because all who have picked up the weapons of war have not died through weapons of war. Now Jesus is saying something more profound. You know what he's saying here? Peter, he's saying, you don't understand the gospel. You don't understand the cross. You have a worldly mindset, he's saying, by taking up the sword. You don't understand that the cross, the gospel, the cross, is in the world's eyes a completely upside down way. way. Now, when Peter pulls out the sword, he misunderstands the cross in three ways. Here they are. Number one, first of all, he misunderstands the upside-down way of the cross's salvation. Jesus Christ on the cross substituted himself for us. Now, we've said that almost every week, and I'm going to say it again, because this is the essence of how the cross changes you. If you don't believe this, I'm going to try to show you right now. If you don't believe this, What is substitution? What it means is, obviously, upside down. God deserves to be up here. We deserve to be down here. The cross means God, the Lord God, comes down and takes the place we deserve to be. He substitutes himself for us. He puts himself on the cross. He puts himself under the penalty. So God switches. The cross means, if it means nothing, it means the hugest reversal ever. God puts himself where we deserve to be the cross, we will go where he deserves to be. In other words, the Lord Jesus takes upon himself what we deserve to get so that when we believe in him, we get what he deserved. That's the reason why 2 Corinthians 5 21 says, God made him sin who knew no sin that we might become the righteousness of God in him. That is the first thing. You see, when he pulls out the sword, here's what he's saying? Lord, I'm with you. Jesus says, Peter, I came not to bring judgment, but to bear judgment. I came not to wield a sword, but to take the sword into myself. What sword? The Garden of Eden. Adam and Eve decide they're going to be their own masters, their own saviors, their own lords, and as a result of what they did, they lost God. They were thrown out of the Garden of Eden, of chapter 3 of the book of Genesis says, And God put in front of the Garden of Eden a cherubim with a flaming sword that flashes back and forth, guarding the way to the tree of life, guarding the way to the presence of God. There's no way now, because of what we've done, there's no way back into the presence of God except under the sword. And yet, the book of Hebrews says this in Hebrews chapter 10. He says, So we have boldness now of all. We have boldness to enter back into the presence of God by a new and living way, by the blood of Christ with full assurance, with consciences cleansed from dead works. What is it saying? It's saying something very simple. The only way for us to get back into the presence of God was to go under the sword, and Jesus did that for us. For Peter to pull the sword out means he doesn't believe in the gospel of substitution. He believes in the gospel of self-salvation. He says, oh, basically what he's saying is, I understand all good people get to heaven, bad people are not. So I'm getting ready to do the right thing. I'm going to fight against the bad people. Jesus says, oh, you don't understand. The gospel is utterly the reverse of what the world thinks. The gospel does not come by the Messiah showing up, bearing the sword, but by receiving the sword. Not bringing judgment, but receiving judgment.

And that's the first thing. by pulling out the sword so that he doesn't understand the upside down gospel. The God comes down so that we can be lifted up. But that's not all. The second thing he does when he pulls out the sword is what? He's showing that he believes he's one of the good guys. He believes he's one of the people who has the right to condemn and to judge and to destroy the bad people. And what that means is that he not only misunderstands the upside down cross way of salvation understands the upside down crossway of psychology. There's a cross psychology. There's a gospel psychology and it runs like this. It's exactly the opposite of what the world thinks. The gospel psychology goes like this. Substitution. This means on the one hand I'm so bad that Jesus had to be substituted for me. There's no other way. But on the other hand I'm so valued and so loved that Jesus would substitute for me. And here's what that means. In Christian psychology and cross psychology Crossed way of the self is exactly the opposite of what the world thinks. Because in Crossed psychology, the way up is down. The way to receive honor and confidence is to admit you're a sinner. The way to know that you are more loved and accepted than you ever dared hope is to accept and admit that you're more sinful than you ever dared believe. The way to know that you're so valued that he would substitute for you is to admit that you're so lost that he had to substitute for you. And what that means, of course, is Christian approach to things is this. Because I've repented, I feel great. Because I've admitted I'm a sinner, now I have the most amazing confidence. And that means I never look at anybody else and pull out a sword on them. Now, that doesn't mean, okay, I told you, I'm not going to argue right now about pacifism. But here's what I am going to say. The way you can tell come in and has changed your self-image is that you never feel superior to other people. You don't feel like you can ever say, I'm the good person. You're the bad person. I'm the person that the world needs. And you're the kind of people that are making the world a stinky place. You see, the trouble is, there's a liberal mindset, which is a good mindset. But apart from the gospel, a liberal mindset says, you know, the problem with the world is oppressive, bigoted, narrow-minded people. I'm not one of those people. And therefore, liberal people without the gospel look down. They condemn. They say, I'm the good persons, you're the bad people. Then there's a conservative mindset without the gospel. And the conservative mindset goes like this. What the world needs are virtuous people, people who believe in traditional values. I'm one of those people, you're not, and therefore they condemn. But see, the gospel says the problem with the world is me, my heart. And I'm saved simply because of the grace of God. What that means is I never go out looking at other people and pull a sword on them. You see what I mean by that? I'm never in a position to say, I'm the good person. You're the bad people. You're what's wrong with this country. You're what's wrong with this society. You're what's wrong with this world. Never. That's how you know the gospel has changed you. When you see your sin and you repent and you feel better and better and better and more valued, the crosses come in. When you no longer feel that you can pull, in a sense, and condemn people. When you respect people when you have hope for them when you have love for them yet you have the courage to tell them the truth courage and yet hope and yet humility and great respect that shows that you understand the upside down nature of gospel psychology cross psychology but there's lastly one more thing when Peter pulls out the sword it means he doesn't understand substitutionary work of Christ on the cross when Peter pulls out the sword it shows he doesn't understand that the way up is down that the way really to have a great self-image is to repent. He doesn't understand that at all. But the third thing when he pulls out the sword is he doesn't understand that the way to change the world is not with coercive power, with military, financial, social, or political power, but through sacrificial service. See, when Peter pulls out the sword, what he is showing is, in the world, all that matters is political power, military power, Social power, financial power, that's what really matters. The sword. You know, whenever I've been interviewed by journalists, even the best journalists, if they don't understand the gospel, here's what they always are doing. They'll ask me, you know, about the ministry, about the church, or about me, so, but what they really are trying to get at is, okay, who do you vote for? What party are you registered in? Who are you really in bed with politically? Who are you, Let's get down to reality. What are you really doing? What are you really after? In other words, they live by the sword. They will die by the sword. In other words, coercive power is what the world thinks is really the way you change things. Let me prove them wrong right here. Who is the most influential person in the history of the world? The most influential human being in the history of the world? Who has changed more societies? Who has changed more lives? Who is the most influential person in the history of the world? Jesus of Christ, of course. Now, class, let me ask you.

How many elections did he win? How many armies did he field? How many battles did he win? How much money did he have? He had nothing. He gave his life in sacrificial service. He says, foxes have holes and birds have nests, but the Son of Man does not have any place to put his head. And what does the cross mean? The cross means that the world's values are wrong The Cross brings into your life the upside down values that says this. The way to change the world is through sacrificial service. Not through wielding power. The way to change the world is to serve people. Think about this. The Cross comes in and tells me things. The Cross shows me someone who though he was rich became poor so that through his poverty I might become rich. That will forever change my attitude toward money. If through The Cross I realize I am this loved then that means that money is just money to me now. It's not my identity anymore. Money is your identity, and you can't give it away. If you suddenly get a huge raise, you're going to spend 80% of that raise on getting into a nicer neighborhood and getting nicer things, and you'll spend a little bit more money because money is a power to you. Money is an identity to you. But the cross stops it. The cross crucifies money to you and you to money. And therefore, you're so radically generous that the world will think, if any of the people in the world hear how much money you're giving away, they're going to think you're nuts.

Another thing, the cross shows you people, shows you a man dying for his enemies. If you are a member of a particular class or race and right on the other side is another class or race that have hurt you and bugged you and upset you and alienated you and you become a Christian and the cross comes into your life, that means you have been saved by a man who made space for you while you were an enemy. And that means that you are going to start looking at people who in the past you saw as your opponents, you saw as your antagonists You're not going to just want to hang out with your kind of people. You're not going to just want to hang out with your class, with your race, with your ethnic group. Of course, the world's going to think you're nuts. But the cross turns everything upside down. Psychologically, sociologically, theologically. Substitution turns your psychology upside down and turns your sociology upside down. It turns you into people who are radically generous. It turns you into people who don't want to just hang out with their kind of people. See? It turns you into people who care about needy because Jesus Christ became poor voluntarily so you could be pulled out of your spiritual poverty into spiritual wealth. That changes your attitude toward the poor and toward your own wealth forever. Lastly, you see, out of understanding the cross, he looks at Peter and he's pulling out this sword and he says, Peter, you have the world's mindset. Anybody who lives by the sword, namely tries to earn your own salvation, you're going to be condemned by judgment. Anybody who is judgmental to other people, you yourself will be judged. Anybody who uses the world's power and tries to use money and power and military might to get your way, you'll be crushed by it. Put away your sword.

Lastly, from the cross comes a committed life. From the cross comes an upside-down values life. this. From the world, from the cross comes the most incredibly calm life. Look at Jesus Christ. He goes out to the crowd. You know, now these are people, he even says so. He says, you come with swords and clubs. And what does he say? Look carefully. First of all, he's rebuking them. Now, by the way, have you ever seen a mob of people come after you with swords and clubs? I doubt you're going to react like this. First of all, he says, A, you're wrong. I'm not leading rebellion. You're as wrong as Peter. The gospel has enormous social transforming power, but it doesn't start as a social program. B, every day I sat in the temple courts teaching, he's tweaking them. He's tweaking their noses. He says, excuse me, I've been restable all week. What are you coming here in the middle of the night? As if we didn't know, cowards. So he's tweaking them. But then lastly, he says, but this has all taken place because it has to. Now, you know what this means? The last thing I'm trying to tell you here today is if you understand the cross, you're going to have this same attitude, if you really understand it. The cross means no matter how bad things look, no matter how unjust everything seems to be, no matter how out of control things seem to be, they're not. His friends ran away. Why? The cross meant God has abandoned him. Well, in a way, he had. But on the other hand, no. You see, the cross means that no matter how much I can't understand it, no matter how much everything seems to be, you know, God just blowing, you know, not answering prayer, everything's to be blown out of the water, what does it tell us? God is still there. God is working out redemptively. He's working his purposes out. bad things are. See, Jesus is able to say, I want you to realize that my cross is part of a plan, and therefore I don't get all a bit out of shape. God is working. And you know what that means? Your crosses are part of a plan. This reference to the legions, he says, there's, you know, he says, there's chariots of fire all around me. He says, legions of angels all around me. And it's interesting. You remember back, well, you might not remember, we actually preached on this way, way, way back in the fall.

Elisha, back in, I think, in 2 Kings, Elisha the prophet was in a town called Dothan, and he was surrounded by hostile forces, and his servant was scared to death and said, oh my goodness, it's just terrible. We're all going to die. And Elisha prays that his servant's eyes would be open, and his servant's eyes are open, and he sees legions of angels, chariots of fire, legions of angels all around the city there to protect him. next day, God actually, you know, smites the enemy blind and they're saved. What's interesting is that Dothan was also the place where Joseph, many centuries before that, was thrown into a pit. And there he probably prayed for God to help him, but he was sold into slavery. And he probably thought, what is God doing? Why this cross in my life? Why is everything going wrong. But of course, we know that if he hadn't gone into, been sold into slavery, he never would have been able to save his family. In fact, he never would have been able to save many, many people from starvation. But what's so interesting is, here is Elisha praying in Dothan, oh Lord, help me with the angels. And here is Joseph praying, oh Lord, help me. And one place God seems to come through, another place God seems to not come through, but he's always coming through. God is as much there in the silence for Joseph as he is in the dramatic deliverance of Elisha. And the cross is telling us about all of that. The cross is saying this. You can look at the things that come into your life and say, come on, crosses. The lower you lay me, the higher you'll raise me. Because this is the way God works. Whatever comes into my life, if I follow him, it's only going to bring me through to some kind of resurrection. It's going to bring me through into his grace, into his presence.

roll. Come on. You know, in a couple weeks we're going to sing that hymn, that Easter hymn. There's one place where it says, made like him, like him we rise. Ours the cross, the graves, the skies. Ours the cross? The graves? Yes, it means the death that comes into your life, disaster comes into your life, terrible things come into your life. It's for you. God hates suffering. God hates evil. And yet he is overwhelming it somehow. He is overruling it so that things that come into your life that are really terrible that you can't see any purpose for, Jesus says, there's a plan. George Herbert writes a little poem where Jesus is looking down from the cross, and at one place he says this. He says, I have it here, with clubs and staves they seek me as a thief. I, who am the way of life and truth, the true relief, but most true to those who are my greatest grief was ever grief like mine. Let's pray. Our Father, we ask that you'd help us to see that out of the cross, if we understand it properly and understand what Jesus was doing there, flows a committed life, a life of upside-down values, and a calm life. And we ask that the cross would have that effect on everybody in this room as we pray that into our hearts, as we reflect and meditate on it. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.
