The scripture reading tonight comes from the Gospel of Matthew, chapter 5, verses 21 through 24, and then chapter 18, verses 15 through 20. You have heard that it was said to the people long ago, Do not murder, and anyone who murders will be subject to judgment. But I tell you that anyone who is angry with his brother will be subject to judgment. Again, anyone who says to his brother, Raka, is answerable to the Sanhedrin. but anyone who says, You fool will be in danger of the fire of hell. Therefore, if you are offering your gift at the altar and there remember that your brother has something against you, leave your gift there in front of the altar. First go and be reconciled to your brother. Then come and offer your gift. If your brother sins against you, go and show him his fault just between the two of you. If he listens to you, you have won your brother over. not listen, take one or two others along so that every matter may be established by the testimony of two or three witnesses. If he refuses to listen to them, tell it to the church. And if he refuses to listen even to the church, treat him as you would a pagan or a tax collector. I tell you the truth, whatever you bind on earth will be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth will be loosed in heaven. Again, I tell you that if two of you on earth agree about anything you ask for, it will be done for you by my Father in heaven. For where two or three come together in my name, there I am with them. This is the word of the Lord. Now, for weeks we've been looking at these big blocks of teaching, by Jesus Christ in the Gospel of Matthew. They cover all sorts of practical issues, and in some ways they're almost like a New Testament version of the book of Proverbs. Proverbs is wisdom literature. How do you really live your life? Today we come to a subject in which Jesus is very specific, very, very practical. In fact, so practical and so specific, it's very uncomfortable. He's talking about, let me just give you the oversight right off the top, I mean the overview. What he's actually talking about is this, that relationships, human relationships, constantly need repair. And if you know yourself and you know the importance of keeping relationships in repair, you will be willing to be inside a community, community, a Christian community that holds you accountable to constantly keep your relationships in repair and to do that well. Now, we've actually put two together. We put a part of chapter 5, Matthew 5, and a part of chapter 18. They're bookends, as we'll see. And together they tell us the need for relationship repair, the components or the parts of relationship repair, for relationship repair, the need for it, the parts of it, and the power for it. So, and there's a lot here. It's very specific. Let's take a look. First of all, the need for relationship repair. Now, the first part, chapter 5, a part of that we've treated some weeks ago, and so we can't expound it again in detail, but we can just give you, I can just give you the revolutionary basic point that Jesus is making, verse 21, chapter 5, and 22. He says, you've heard it said, do not murder, and anyone who murders will be subject to judgment. In other words, he says, everybody knows, everybody agrees, you shouldn't kill. Murder is wrong. But, notice he says, but. But, he goes on and says, hey, if murder was a tree, if a tree is wrong, then the seed or acorn from which the tree comes is wrong. If a tree is wrong and bad, then that which produced it is wrong and bad. And therefore, he says, if you're one of my followers, it's not just, you don't just say, well, I haven't killed anybody. He says, let me tell you what else I forbid. I forbid the seed. I forbid the acorn. I forbid the poison from which this destructive behavior comes. Well, what is that? But I tell you, anyone who is angry with his brother will be subject to judgment. Anger, resentment, grudge. The New York Times on Friday morning, I guess, the day after the shooting at the Empire State Building, where one person shot dead, a former colleague, and then was shot dead by police. Did you read the title? The title, which was an excellent summary of the whole matter, The title on Friday was, quote, In Empire State Killing, a Grudge Boiled Over. Right out of Matthew 5, 21 and 22. In Empire State Killing, a Grudge Boiled Over. Now, where does the tree of murder come from? It always comes from a grudge. And yet, look, it's true that in 99.999999% of the time, the cases, the grudge doesn't boil over into murder. is smacking him in the mouth. But Jesus says, poison is poison. Why would you want to go walking around with that in your heart, knowing that in the right circumstances, that could just boil over into something? Okay, you say, all right, all right, okay, murder's wrong, but so are grudges. Okay, I got that. But where do grudges come from? Let's go down. Where do the grudges come from that the harm and the violence and the murder come from? And the answer is, again, anyone who says to his brother, Raka is answerable, and anyone who says, you fool, will be in danger of a fire of hell. And here he's hitting bedrock. What is it that leads to the grudge? What is it that makes it possible for you to be angry and resentful toward other people? It's a disdainful attitude. It's a dismissive attitude. sneering spirit. It's looking at someone and rolling your eyes in your heart and saying, you idiot, you fool. Jesus has the audacity and he's right that at the bottom, what makes you resentful and angry and offended by people, which leads into a really worse thing, it's a haughty It's a dismissive spirit. It's a looking down at people. It's a sneering at them. It's saying, you fool. Raka, by the way, is even weaker than fool. It's a word that means you nobody, you non-entity, you unimportant person. It's to sneer. It's to belittle. And that spirit at the bottom, you might say, well, all right, wait a minute. That happens all the time. I do that all the time. Right. Jesus is trying to say, let's take a look. Sure. Of course. becomes murder. All right. How much of that becomes violence? All right. How much of that becomes anger? Well, where does it come from? It comes from this. And it's this default mode in the heart. This is happening constantly. It's happening every day in your life. Every day. It's like, since a lot of you New Yorkers, you don't know what this is. A lot of you have never heard of a basement. A basement is a place that's very, very dark and very, very damp, and therefore nasty things grow there all the time, and you've always got to be dealing with it. And Jesus is trying to say your heart's a basement. The natural default mode of the heart is to actually be growing stuff that turns into all this other and actually, of course, disrupts relationships. It's because of this default mode of the heart that he says in verse 23, therefore, therefore, he says, if you're offering your gift at the altar, and you remember your brother has something against you, go and be reconciled to your brother. The word reconciled means to return the relationship to warmth and intimacy. Why does he say therefore? He says because your heart's like this, because it's always filled with that sneering, dismissive attitude toward people, which leads to resentment, which leads to, you know, anger, which leads to disrupted relationships, you're always going to have to be repairing those relationships because they're always going to be unraveling, and they're always going to be going bad. In fact, he makes the case, by the way, he gives an illustration here that's probably lost on us unless we think a little bit about the context. He says, if you are offering your gift at the altar and remember that your brother is something against you, leave it there and go. Now, when you and I see the word altar, you're thinking of a church maybe, and there's altars on every corner in New York City. But in Israel, there was only one altar. You're only allowed to have one altar. All other altars were illegal. It was in the temple of Jerusalem. And if you wanted to do a gift at the altar, it was a big deal. You had to travel usually for days. It wasn't something that you did all the time. It was a big deal. And Jesus goes so far as to say, what if you've gone to all that trouble, and you've gone to all that, and you've taken this big trip, and you're right in the middle of the ceremony and you suddenly realize, I have a relationship with someone that's unraveling. I need to reconcile with someone. He says, go. Well, what do you mean go? It's going to be another few days to do it. It's actually a ridiculous illustration and it's Jesus' way of making the point. This is so urgent. This is so important. It doesn't matter how much it inconveniences you. It doesn't matter how difficult it is. You must constantly keep those relationships in repair. You've got to undermine the natural tendency of the human heart that leads to fraying and unraveling relationships. Now, somebody says, well, how do I know I've got a relationship that needs reconciliation? I'm glad you asked that question. And here are some signs. I'm going to give you seven signs. Each one is a little more serious than the next. I wouldn't go so far as to say these are seven levels of an unraveling relationship because it's not that clear and simple. These overlap. But I'll give them to you in order of seriousness. The first level where this dynamic begins to work on the heart that begins to make you cool in your relationship. Then it gets colder. Then it gets broken and so forth. The first sign or level of this relationship, as already mentioned, is when you roll your eyes inside and you think to yourself, looking at somebody, you idiot, you lout, you rube, what a mess you are. Now, isn't it true that some people actually are idiots, louts, rubes, and messes? Yes. But when you look at that and you acknowledge that, and there's no sadness in your heart. There's no sympathy for them. But instead, there's disdain and there's sneering. That's the beginning of this. That's what Jesus says. That's the beginning of the relationship going bad. That's the beginning of your actually moving away. That's the beginning of your heart getting haughty and hard. Second sign, or maybe you say level, is when you hear about the person having a problem somehow. I passed over for a promotion or something unpleasant happened to me. And you hear about it, and it's very satisfying. You have tied your happiness to their unhappiness, and that's a terrible sign too. Third, the irritation test. There are some things that you don't like when people do it to you, but you can overlook it. When they do that, when they say that, yeah, I don't like it. it, it's infuriating. And when you know that you're far more irritated with a person for doing something that if someone else did, wouldn't bother you so much, now you know you still got this. Again, this is another sign or another level in this blocking of the relationship, in this hardening of the heart, in this haughtiness and disdain, and that you have the possibility of resentment. Now, number four, when you start to feel awkwardness in the relationship, just a kind of a coldness or awkwardness, the other person may feel it may not. You certainly do. The fifth sign is when you actually know that you're avoiding them. You're just staying away. Oh, you know, it's not real overt and you're not going to incredible lengths, but you're avoiding them. The sixth sign is when you can pass along negative information about them to somebody else and really like it. Of course, that's not what you ever say. You say, well, I hate to have to do this, and it pains me to have to tell you this, but of course it doesn't at all. And of course, the seventh sign or level is when there really is a disruption. That is, you're not speaking to each other, you're hardly speaking to each other, or when you are together, there's just lots of friction. It doesn't matter whether it's a Matthew 5 situation, situation, as we're going to see here in a second, where the person seems to have something against you, or a Matthew 18 situation in which you actually have something against the person, Jesus says it is absolutely crucial that you deal with that, acknowledge it for what it is, and repair that relationship. One of the most interesting things to me, Kathy and I have often noticed that we have only had two churches, and they're at opposite ends of the sociological spectrum of relationships. The sociologist would say that in our first church, our first situation, which was in the 70s and 80s in a small blue-collar town where nobody ever moved in or out. The sociologist would say that the relationships there were thick. The reason they were thick is because everyone had multiplex relationships. The people you went to church with were people you grew up with, people you went to high school with. Now people whose children are in the same school with your children. Because there are hardly any schools. They're your neighbors. They work at the plant with you. And half of them. You're related to by marriage. And therefore. In a situation like that. Every relationship you've got. These are also the same people you see in the store. You go to the store. Half the people you know. From high school. Because your kids are in the same school. Your parents together. you work at the plant or something like that. Multiplex relationships. And in a situation like that, when relationships unravel and you stop talking to each other, there actually is a fair amount of pressure on you to reconcile. Why? Because everybody's in pain. The whole community's in pain. Everybody knows about it. But now we're in New York. And here the relationships are unbelievably thin, according to the sociologists. Because the people you live with or right near with. They're not people generally that you grew up with, certainly, or went to school with. All your relationships are thin. You've got one and only one, you know, thing that binds you to any one person. And when you have a problem, when the relationship starts to unravel, you just unfriend them. And you're moving every two years, so you're not going to see them anymore. There's no pressure on you, and yet poison is poison. And if you do not learn how to do relationship repair, in about 30 seconds. If you never learn how to do relationship repair, how to repent and forgive, how to get through these things, how to soften your heart toward each other, you know, you don't. You just stay away from people. You get away from people. You unfriend them. You move away. You know, you don't have to do it. And then you want to get married. And you are utterly unequipped because there's absolutely nothing more important for any long-term friendship or any long-term family relationship or certainly a marriage than understanding relationship repair because it's the people you've gone through that many, many times with that are your closest people, the people who you know the best, who you love the most, who understand you and love you the best. Do you see the need for relationship repair? Point two. How does it happen? Now here, those of you trying to take notes, good luck. Because there are points and subpoints and subpoints under the subpoints. And, you know, okay. All right, go ahead. There are two, there are basically two basic tools for relationship repair that have to be used in three different arenas. Two tools in three arenas. And the two tools are repentance and forgiveness. And the three arenas in which you must use them is you must do repentance and forgiveness inside, internally, Secondly, outside relationally. And thirdly, communally. Now, let's go. Ready? First of all, the two tools of relationship repair, the essentials are how to repent and how to forgive. Now, repentance is the implication in the first, the Matthew 5 situation, where it says, therefore, if you're offering your gift in the altar, you remember your brother has something against you, leave your gift in the altar, go and be reconciled. That is talking about if you know somebody has something against you, you go, and what are you doing? You're leading with repentance there. And what is repentance? Here it is. Repentance is, first of all, taking full responsibility for what you've done wrong with no excuses at all. You're not coming in and saying, wrong here, I know, but you know, you made me do it. Even if the other person you think in your mind is mainly to blame, even if the other person goaded you into it, triggered you to do what you did, even if the other person is 80% of the problem, you come in with your 20% and you admit it and you make no excuses for it. And you say, here's what I've done wrong and I'm sorry and I have no excuse for it. Secondly, repentance also means, besides taking full responsibility without excuses. It means asking for forgiveness. Would you forgive me? And then thirdly, it means offering to make changes. Repentance always means change. It means willing to say, hey, look, I don't want this to happen again. Here's what I'll do to make a change, or what do you suggest I do to make a change? And until you do all those three things, you haven't repented. Now, on the other side, we've got forgiveness. And here my problem is that next week we go into the rest of chapter 18, immediately following this section in chapter 18 where Jesus says, if your brother has sinned against you, go and show him his fault. And then right after that, there's a very long and wonderful section. In fact, I think maybe the best place in all the Bible to learn about the nature of forgiveness. And I cannot try to... It's obvious that forgiveness is crucial to this. I've got to summarize it, but I also don't want to take away the thunder of next week's sermon either. Here's what forgiveness is. Forgiveness has a prerequisite, a definition, and a practice to it. I told you, headings and subheadings and so on. First of all, you cannot forgive without this prerequisite. You've got to know that you're a sinner saved by grace and that if God held any of your sins against you, you'd be lost. You've got to know that, and not just up here. It's got to be in the very center of your consciousness. that you are a sinner saved by grace, freely accepted, but surely by grace, by sure grace, has got to be a living, bright reality to you. And if it is, you can't keep a grudge. Do you know that? Because grudges and resentment, you can't stay angry at somebody unless you feel that you would never do that. Have you ever noticed if somebody does something wrong, and it's the sort of thing you do all the time anyway, it's pretty hard to get all upset. You say, well, yeah, okay, wasn't right, but you know how it goes. When you really stay angry at somebody, it's because the subtext, the subtext, maybe even unconscious, but what you're actually saying is, I would never do anything like that. But here's what the gospel says. Well, maybe, okay, maybe that's not exactly the kind of sin you do. But if God was holding your sins against you, you'd be lost. If God was doing to you what you are doing to her or him, you'd be gone. And the prerequisite for all forgiveness is to put that knowledge smack in the middle, and what that does is it just drains the anger out. The more you understand the gospel, the less you can stay angry at people. The more angry you are at people, the less you understand the gospel. And now what's the definition of forgiveness? Here it is. The definition of forgiveness is to give up the right to see repayment. To give up the right, listen carefully, to see repayment. When someone wrongs you, you feel you've been robbed. Sometimes you're literally robbed of money, but most of the time you can't actually put a, you know, you can't quantify it quite like that. Most of the time, you've been robbed of happiness or reputation or an opportunity or something like that. So you're in pain. So what do you want to do? The natural thing is to create pain back. You're unhappy, you'll make them unhappy. So you tell them off or you let them know or you yell at them or whatever. There's a couple ways to see repayment. If you feel like they've wronged you, one of the things is to go exact it yourself and say, okay, you beat them up hurt them, and you talk to them, and you yell at them, and you tell other people bad things, and you're exactly the same. Or you might take the high moral ground. I say, oh, no, no, I'm not going to revenge myself. But you're rooting for their comeuppance. And every time you hear that somebody else has been tough on them or something bad has happened to them, you go, yes. See? Either way, you're not forgiving them. You know why? Why? Because you're not giving up the right to see repayment. To forgive is to say, I forgo repayment. I completely give up any claim to that. And how do you do that? And here's the practice. It's very, very important. Four things. things. I warned you. It's not like, hey, I told you. So, come on. Forgiveness is granted before it's felt. If you wait to feel forgiving, you'll never forgive. It's granted, and it's a promise, it's a commitment to not do three things and to do a fourth. You promise not to beat the person up to their face. You don't get there and get in their face and yell at them and tell them how bad they were trying to make a few. It's a promise not to beat them up to their faces. It's a promise not to beat them up to other people. Not to run them down in other people's reputations. And thirdly, not to continually beat them up in your heart. Not to replay all the things that happen to you. And think about how bad they are. And so, you're not going to. You're not going to. Beat them up to their faces. Beat them up to others. Beat them up in your heart. And you're going to pray for them. You're going to get rid of ill will. You're not. not going to root for their comeuppance. You're going to pray for them. If you do that, if you make that promise, you can make that promise when you're filled with anger, by the way. And you can do those four things when you're filled with anger. And it's going to be hard. It's going to be so hard. Sometimes it's going to be incredibly hard. But you know what the alternative is? When evil is done to you and you don't forgive, then the evil wins. You know why? Because it comes into you and it hardens you. And it makes you more bitter and angry. Forgiveness is something that's granted before it's felt. It's granted by committing yourself to do those four things. Now, repentance and forgiveness, there they are. I just gave you as specific a definition as I possibly could. How good are you at doing those things? I want you to know that they are the key. Kathy and I go so far as to say that two people who know how to repent and forgive in Christ, any two people,

can have a happy marriage. That's an exaggeration, but not a very big one. So the point is there are other things besides that. But honestly, that's by far the most important thing. In a marriage, in spite of incompatibilities, in spite of different backgrounds, temperaments, and that sort of thing, if you know how to repent and you know how to forgive in Christ and you're both doing it regularly,

it is so unbelievably important but it's also true for everything for friendship for everything those are the two tools now the other thing you have to learn though and jesus won't let you off the hook by thinking about this in the abstract these two things have to be done and they symbiotically relate as i'm going to show you repentance forgiveness always go together in three arenas the first arena is deep in yourself, deep in yourself. No matter what else happens, you first of all repair relations by just going in and doing your own repentance for anything you've done wrong before God, reminding yourself of your sin or sin by grace, and your own forgiveness. Regardless of what anybody else has done out there, regardless of whether you have made any overtures or the person has said anything to you, in Mark chapter 11, verse 25, it says, Jesus says, if you are standing and you're praying and you have anything against anyone, forgive them. Full stop. Not, well, go to them and if they repent, no. If you stand and you're praying and you have anything against anyone, forgive. Now why must you repent and forgive inside first? And the answer is, first of all, an awful lot of relationships that were unraveling were mainly unraveling on your side. And that means, in many times, all you have to do is the internal work. And you start to warm up to the person. You start to overlook the things. And you start to say, all right, the person's different than me. I don't have to be so upset. And love covers a multitude of sins. You don't have to go to them. You don't have to talk to them at all. The relationship starts to warm up. You shouldn't have to go to people for every little thing they do. And if you repent and forgive on the inside, side, not only does that mean often the relationships get repaired without you having to talk to people, but secondly, if you do that work first, then and only then can you go to the second arena. Only then can you go and start to talk to people. You know why? If you do a Matthew 5 number and you realize that somebody is unhappy with you, if you haven't done the repenting and forgiving, if you haven't reminded yourself that you're a sinner saved by a sheer grace. And if you haven't forgiven that person for whatever they did to contribute. If you go to them and you say. Well I'm sorry. Yes. If I've offended you. Have you ever heard anybody do that. Have you ever done that. If I've offended you. I'm sorry. Which is another way of saying. If you're so picky. If you're so insensitive. If you're such a small minded person. That what I've done. Has really bothered you that much. Well all right. Tell you what's wrong with that. Yeah. I mean. Yeah. We're laughing. But what you've actually done. under the guise of asking for forgiveness, you're sticking a knife in them. You know why? Because you should not be out there trying to do so-called repentance and forgiveness in arena two unless you've done it in arena one. Your repentance is going to be a sham. Or, just as important, Matthew 18, if your brother sins against you, go and show him his fault. fault. Why? Why are you going? Your brother has sinned against you. They've done something wrong, and now I'm going to go, and I'm going to talk. Jesus says, go and talk to them about it. Why? It says, just between the two of you, if he listens to you, you've won your brother over. The word, the Greek word translated, show him his fault, elencho, which means not declare judgment. It actually means to persuade. Wade, if you've done the forgiveness in your heart, you've really forgiven them in your heart the way Mark 11, 25 says, if you have anything against anybody, forgive them. If you've done that, then when you go to tell them about your fault, their fault, why are you going? Are you're going to get it off your chest. Are you going to make them feel bad? You're going for God's sake. You're going for their sake. You're going for truth's sake. You're going to try to help wake them up to what they've done wrong so they don't do it to somebody else. But you're not doing it for your sake. You don't need to. But if you go and you tell them your fault and you're basically there to make them feel bad, to punish them, to get a kind of vengeance, to get a little bit of repayment, they're going to know it right away and they're not going to listen to a thing you say

pastor. So unless you do the repenting and forgiving in the first arena inside, then when you go out and you try to do it in the second arena to try to restore relationships that have started to go bad, it's not going to work. But let me show you one more thing about that second arena. Did you notice? In Matthew 5, it says, if the person has something against you, go to them. them. In Matthew 18, it says, if you have something against the person, go to them. Have you noticed something? It doesn't matter who started it. It doesn't matter whether that one person is more to blame or it doesn't matter who's more to blame. It's always your move, Jesus says. If you can see that a relationship is unraveling and your internal work is not enough just to make it better, it's always your move. You say, well, he started. She started. Jesus says, yeah, that's what they're saying, by the way. Well, it was 80% their fault. Only 20% my fault. They should be coming to me. Well, they're sitting there thinking the same thing. That's why nothing ever happens. Jesus says it doesn't matter whether they've got something against you or you've got something against them. It's always your move. You shouldn't do it lightly. You shouldn't do it over every little thing. A lot of these things can be dealt with in Arena 1, but in Arena 1, if you've done it well, you go to Arena 2. And then finally, if Arena 2 doesn't work, there's Arena 3. And this is, I can't believe I'm going to do this in like two or three minutes, but I must, first of all, speak to it because it's so important, and yet not get into all the details, all the questions that could be raised. But you notice in verse 18, we're told, chapter 18, excuse me, that if you have done this and it's not working and you've brought somebody else, friends in to kind of help to really get that relationship restored, to do repentance and forgiveness, and you get some people to respond, you know, support the work, and it still doesn't work, very finally it says, verse 17, if he refuses to listen to them, tell it to the church, and if he refuses to listen to the church, treat him as you would a pagan or a tax collector. What is that? And here's what it is. The Bible says that if you're a Christian believer and a disciple of Jesus Christ, you ought to be seeking to maintain relationships with everyone in the way we've been discussing. Everything I've told you up to now applies to all your relationships because Romans chapter 12, verse 18 says, as much as it depends on you, live at peace with all. as much as it depends on you. That's Paul's way of saying, you do your best to repent and forgive and do whatever you can to maintain relationships. But if other people don't respond, that's it. You've done as much as it depends on you. But what if you try to restore a relationship and it doesn't work, and you're both Christian believers and you're both in the same church? church. Jesus says, well, there, relationship repair is so important that you get resources inside the church that you don't have out in the regular world. And what is that? He says, tell it to the church. Now, what does that mean? Get the church's help. Now, this is very general, and it's good, because there's great big churches, and there's tiny little churches, and there's Episcopalian churches, and there's Baptist churches, and there's Presbyterian Churches and Lutheran Churches and Roman Catholic Churches. And they're all structured differently. And therefore, what that means works itself out differently everywhere. In a Presbyterian Church like ours, and the word Presbyterian is the Greek word for elder, presbyter, elder, which means an elder-led church. What it means is tell it to the elders. And the elders sit and work with you and hold your feet both to the fire to repent and forgive and to live as Christians are supposed implications of the gospel in your relationship. And if one or both of you do not do that, there can be actually a kind of sanction. It should not be fast. It should take a very long time. It shouldn't be done very, very quickly. But at a certain point, you can, the church can actually say, we're removing your membership. Now, what does it mean to treat someone as a pagan and a tax collector? Sounds terrible until you realize how Jesus treated pagans and tax collectors. How did he treat them? He loved them, but he knew that they were spiritually clueless. And I remember, listen, years ago, not in this church, by the way, I wrote a letter after one of these processes in which the elders worked with a couple people, and neither of them would reconcile to each other, and we removed both of them from membership. But we loved them, and here's what I wrote. I said, You are not acting consistently with the gospel you profess to believe. We are not saying you aren't saved. We're not saying you're not a Christian, but we're removing your privileges of membership. We're going to lovingly but firmly treat you as a nonbeliever in the gospel till you wake up to the fact you're acting like a nonbeliever in the gospel. That didn't mean, of course, to shun or be mean to them in any way. Now, some of you are saying, why in the world would I, as a New Yorker, want to belong to a church like that? Why would I want to put myself under authority? Why would I want to put myself in a church and give them the right to hold my feet to the fire like that? I decide what is right or wrong for me. Nobody tells me how to live my life. Let me tell you a story. You remember the story of Ulysses and the sirens? Homer. Ulysses is coming back from the Trojan War, and he's in a boat, and the only way home is to go by the island of the sirens. And he's told that when men hear the sirens, these were women that sat on the rocks and sang, that when men heard the singing, they went mad with desire, and they would drive their ship into the rocks and they'd perish. So Ulysses says, I'm the captain and therefore I'm going to keep my ears open, but I'm tying myself to the mast. And then he told all of his soldiers and sailors, they put wax in their ears and said, now when we get near the island of the sirens, I'll probably hear the music and I'll probably go crazy. And I'll tell you to turn right into the rocks and I'll scream at you and yell at you, curse you. Well, I'll be out of my mind. Don't listen to me. me. Stay on course. It's called the Ulysses Pact. He says, I know I'll be out of my mind, and I don't want you to listen to me when I'm out of my mind. I want you to stay on course and keep me to the course that I am setting for myself now. And of course, that's what happened. He got near the islands, and he heard the sound, and he went berserk, and he screamed and cursed, and he told them to turn right, and they didn't. They kept on course. course. The Bible says in Hebrews 3, exhort one another daily lest you be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin. What does that mean? Sin is deceitful. And if you're a Christian, you know that sometimes you'll be deceived by your own heart. And sometimes your ego will kick in. Sometimes your self-defense mechanisms will grow up. And sometimes you'll lose perspective, and you'll kind of go spiritually nuts. And it's your job to say to your Christian brothers and sisters around you, you have a right to come and hold my feet to the fire when I'm not living the way I want to live. I will have those periods. And Hebrews 13, 17 goes even further and doesn't just say you should have a bunch of friends who do that. Hebrews 13, 17 says, says, obey your leaders and submit to them for they're keeping watch over your souls. Now, who's that? Is it anybody who walks up to you? Have you been walking down the street in Manhattan and somebody says, Hey, are you a Christian? Yes, I am. You say, well, I'm a Christian leader. You need to submit to me. Obviously, it can't mean that anybody who claims to be a Christian leader you have to submit to. What does it mean? It means that you need to find a community where you trust the leaders. and in order to obey what the Bible says. Obey your leaders and submit to them. Which is exactly what's happening here. You need to say, I know my heart enough to know. Sometimes I may go spiritually nuts so I want to be part of a community in which the leaders have the authority to hold my feet to the fire. To live as I ought to live. And if you say I don't want anything like that. You don't understand the gospel yet. You don't understand your own heart yet. You don't know yourself. self. Where do we get the power for this? And unfortunately, my problem is, by the way, that most of what this text says about how Jesus Christ gives you the spiritual power in your heart through his grace to be a repenter and forgiver is in the rest of the chapter, which we're covering next week. But I need to say this. You notice at the very end, there's a bunch of cryptic statements where Jesus says, if you get into this process of repenting and forgiving with the help of the church, if you get into this process of repenting and forgiving, the things you do down here will be confirmed in heaven. And I will be especially present. That's a fascinating promise. Jesus says, when you are doing now what he's actually saying, when you're doing church discipline, when you're doing relationship repair with the help of the church, when you're you're repenting and forgiving, I am particularly present with you. Why? Why does Jesus say, I'm especially present when you're doing stuff like that? I'll tell you why. You know how I said how painful forgiveness is? You know why painful? Dan Hamilton some years ago wrote a little brochure called Forgiveness, and he talked about how he had a girl that they were going to get married, and then she dumped him for somebody she thought was better. And oh, he knew what he had to do to forgive her. And he said, he made the promise. And he said, every time I saw her and wanted to calm her eyes out, but didn't. And every time I had an opportunity to run her down to a friend, I didn't. And every time I had the temptation just to remember all the things she said and how she lied about all those things. I didn't. He said, every time I forgave her and I did the practice, it hurt. It hurt. It was painful. It was searing because I was absorbing the debt. Instead of making her pay, I was absorbing it. And then he said, it was like nails in the hands. It was like thorns in the scalp. The reason that Jesus Christ is especially present, if you ever try to repair a relationship through repentance and forgiveness, in the flesh to forgive us and to bear the weight of our sins, to absorb, to eat the debt instead of make us pay for it. And he experienced a pain infinitely worse than any difficulty you will go through in order to repair a human relationship. Ulysses tied himself to the mast to save his own. Jesus Christ was nailed to the cross and gave himself to save his own. And only the gospel down far enough to make you a forgiver and at the same time affirms you up to the sky and fills you with so much sense of worth and love that it makes you an easy repenter. It's okay to admit you're wrong. It's okay to admit I blew it. It's only that incredible humility and an incredible joy that will make you people, us people, who know how to repair our relationships and keep us from being either what I must say is a liberal church where nobody tells anybody how to live or a of the church that's a police state where everybody's on top of everybody else, clobbering them over every little thing. Only the gospel will make us a church, a community that helps us keep our relationships in repair. Let's pray to God to make us people like that and a community like that. Let's pray. Our Father, this is extensive. This is specific. This is so practical, practical and as a result, it's very uncomfortable. But we also know you want us to be people like this and you want us to live in a community like this. And oh Lord, if we really were a community like this, as you yourself said in the Sermon on the Mount, we would be the light of the world. We would be so different. Make us that light. Make us a people like that. Father, make us like your son, who came not to be served, but to serve and give his life. We pray all this in his name. Amen.