1 Thessalonians 1, verses 1 to 10, and let me read it for you. Paul, Silas, and Timothy, to the Church of the Thessalonians in God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ, grace and peace to you. We always thank God for all of you, mentioning you in our prayers. We continually remember before our God and Father your work produced by faith, your labor prompted by love, your endurance inspired by hope in our Lord Jesus Christ. For we know, brothers, beloved by God, that he has chosen you, because our gospel came to you not simply with words but also with power, with the Holy Spirit, and with deep conviction. You know how we lived among you for your sake. You became imitators of us and of the Lord in spite of severe suffering. You welcomed the message with the joy given by the Holy Spirit. And so you became a model to all the believers in Macedonia and Achaia. The Lord's message rang out from you, not only in Macedonia and Achaia. Your faith in God has become known everywhere. Therefore, we do not need to say anything about it, for they themselves report what kind of reception you gave us. They tell how you turned to God from idols to serve the living and true God and to wait for his Son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, Jesus who rescues us. From the coming wrath. And this is God's word. Now, because in the summertime the listeners rotate in and out and the preachers rotate in and out, give ourselves some continuity, we usually choose a particular book of the Bible in the morning services and we go through it consecutively. And we're looking at, this summer, the two epistles, the two letters of Paul to the Thessalonians, 1 and 2 Thessalonians. And the occasion for it, you can read about it if you go back to Acts 1 and 2. And you can read about it if you go back to Acts chapter 17. It's fairly simple and straightforward. Paul was a church planter. He went to the capital city of Macedonia, which was a northern province, a Roman province. It was in Greece. And in 49 AD, he planted a church. He began to minister and to speak and to teach and communicate and a number of people became Christians and he organized them into a church. But almost immediately, when the church was still very, very new and all the Christians were very young, there was so much opposition in Thessalonica that Paul was forced to flee for his life. And yet he was very worried about leaving such a new group of people so quickly. And so he sent Timothy, one of his co-workers, up to Thessalonica to see how they were doing. Timothy comes back and this is less than a year later from what we can tell. Timothy meets him, gives a report, tells him that the group's doing pretty well, but also tells him about some issues and problems. And so in response to that report, Paul writes this letter. The first few verses, the ones that we just read today, therefore, you can understand now, it's a recap of how they became Christians. These folks that he's writing to are brand new Christians, very, very new in the faith. So he gives a recap of what they went through, how they became Christians, why they became Christians, and so on. And as a result, you've got, I mean, the point of the passage, the subject of the passage is to answer a very important question. What's a Christian? Who has the right to call themselves Christians? How do you have the confidence to know you're a Christian? How can someone become a Christian? What is a Christian? Now, everybody, this is an important thing for everybody. Of course, some of you very directly are really wondering about that for yourselves. One of the first things that happens when a lot of people come to Redeemer is they start to lose their confidence that they understand Christianity and it has to be reconstructed. And so some of you are very directly concerned about it. Some of you would like to know, how do I help people around me become Christians? But, you know, even if you're what you might call yourself an irreligious person, and you happen to be here for a variety of reasons, and you don't care. You say, I don't know what you're talking about, or I'm not that interested in issues like this, becoming a Christian. I'm not interested. Irreligious people are always irreligious on the basis of a presumption that they know what Christianity is. And so, you know, whenever you talk about, whenever I talk to people who say they're spiritually indifferent, whenever I ask them why they're spiritually indifferent, it's always because it's an assumption, it's a presumption. They're indifferent to Christianity, and you can only be indifferent to something if you know what it means, if you know what it is. I mean, very often irreligious people say, well, I used to be a Christian. I was raised in Christianity. They presume they know that they were Christians. Are you sure? Or very often they say, well, there's a group of people, or there's a person that was a Christian, and they did something very offensive and traumatic to me. Are you sure that person was a Christian? You see, no matter who you are, you have to know this. Even those of you who say, oh, how indifferent I am to Christianity, indifference presumes you know what it means to be a Christian, who is, who isn't, and how you become one. So you can't even not be a Christian unless you know what it means to be a Christian. At least you can't be a non-Christian intelligently. In fact, you can't even be a non-Christian safely. Safely, if you don't know what this is. And therefore, everybody needs to know. Here we have it. Paul says, here's how to become a Christian. And we learn three things about it, and then a fourth thing that I'll bring up before we go to the Lord's table. Four things we learn, three things, how to become a Christian, what it means to be a Christian. First of all, the first thing we learn, which is the simplest, is you become a Christian through the gospel. The word gospel shows up right away, you see. In verse four, right away, it talks about our gospel. Our gospel came to you. If you go through the book of 1 Thessalonians, you'll see in chapter two, verse two, Paul calls it his gospel. In chapter two, verse eight and nine, it comes up twice, and it's called the gospel of God. In chapter three, it's called the gospel of Christ, the gospel. And what is the gospel? Well, you see, there's a synonym for it, and the gospel is down a little ways. He says, you received our message. And you see, the message, the gospel, therefore, is a message. It's a series of words. It's a series of sentences, ideas, some affirmations and assertions. The gospel's got content. It's a message. It's an essential core message. And Paul is saying that you don't become a Christian through the preaching or the hearing about love in general or morality in general, but the gospel. So if you don't know what the gospel is, or you don't understand it very well, or if you don't know what it means, or if you can't articulate it, then you're not even being irreligious very, very safely. At all. Because you're not a Christian unless you understand the gospel. That's the first point. Pretty important. But now, secondly, then, you know, you come to the question, well, then how do we know we've become Christians through the gospel? Well, secondly, this teaches us that you know you're becoming a Christian through the gospel when the words become a power, when the assertions of the gospel become a power. Paul says, let me paraphrase what he says in verse four. If you want to look at it, what he's saying is, we know you belong to God because when the gospel came to you, it didn't only come in words. Notice he didn't say it doesn't have to come in words. He says, of course it comes in words, but not only in words, but in power. It becomes a power. In fact, let me put it this way. Irreligious people don't believe the affirmations of the gospel. Religious people do agree with the affirmations. But a Christian is someone who's different from both. A Christian is someone who doesn't just agree with the words and the affirmations of the gospel, but a Christian is someone to whom, in whom, with whom the gospel has become a power. Now, this is very, very important, and let's look at yourself. Let's look at this. Paul says, not just here, but a number of places. He says, for example, in Romans 1, verse 17, he says, the gospel is the power of God. Now, notice he doesn't say it brings power. He doesn't say it results in power. He doesn't say it leads to power. He says it is power. And in 2 Corinthians 4, he says something incredible. Actually, in 2 Corinthians, he tells the Corinthians, he says, I gave you life through the gospel. But then he says, in 2 Corinthians 4, he says, the light of the gospel has shone in our hearts. The light, of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ, has shown into our hearts. He calls the gospel the light of the glory of God, and particularly the light of the glory of Jesus Christ. Now, here's what I mean. Here's what he means. In the beginning, when you're looking at Christianity, you may start thinking that you are investigating it. In the very beginning, it might be a kind of intellectual exercise. You come to church, for example. A lot of it works this way. You come to church. You realize, hey, there's more to this gospel than I thought. You begin to study it. You talk to some people who seem to understand it. You go to some classes. You go to a study. And you're starting to investigate it. But if you're really a Christian, if you've become a Christian, if you are a Christian, something has changed. At some point in the process, you begin to realize you're not just investigating. You're being investigated. Yeah. You're not just investigating something. You come to sense that something is investigating you. When Paul says the gospel is a power, he means it has its own force. It has its own life. Did you see a little interesting verb? There's a transitive verb. There's an active verb there. Our gospel came. What do you mean our gospel came? What is the gospel? It's affirmations. But this gospel walks. It comes. It's got a being. It's got a force. And you sense that there is a power dealing with you. A real Christian is somebody who finds that the affirmations and the assertions of the gospel begin to deal with you. They begin to grab you. You sense at first you think you were investigating it. But you've come to realize that this is something odd. You have a sense of being investigated. You have a sense of being dealt with. You have a sense of being grabbed. Now, how does it start? Let me give you... Well, by the way, you notice in verse 4 it says, we know that you were chosen. Other places, Paul says, we know that you were called. There's something prior. If you've become a Christian, something has first come to you. If you've come to God, something's come to you. If you want to love God, it's because God's love has sought you out. Some places, the Bible says you were called and as a result, you've come. Here it says you were chosen and as a result, you've come. Here it says the gospel came to you and as a result, you've come to him. There is some power, there's something coming at you and you sense that it's a power. Not just that you're taking up something. Christianity isn't something you take up. It's something that takes you up. And if you're a real Christian, somewhere in the process, you come to realize you're being taken up, you're being dealt with. Now, in the early stages of the process, in the early stages of sensing that the gospel's become a power, here's how it starts. You get disturbed. You get upset. And you start to ask yourself fundamental questions about life in general. Now, my favorite example of this that I continually come back to is one of my heroes who was a preacher in London for many years. Before he became a preacher, he was a medical doctor. And when he was a young medical doctor, thinking that the world was his oyster, one day he saw the chief of medicine of his hospital who had a girlfriend, but the girlfriend died. He walked in and sat down at this young doctor's fireplace, and stared into a fire and didn't say anything and look up for two hours. And the young doctor said at that moment, he saw the utter vanity of all human hope and of all human dignity. And what, in other words, what happened to this young doctor? This is Dr. Lloyd-Jones that you've heard me refer to. What happened to him was he suddenly started to say, what really matters? What in the end will last? What is the meaning of life? What am I really living for? What do I hope to accomplish in the end? You know, what will really make a difference? He started to ask the big questions, even though he was a young man. And that's always how it begins. You have a sense that something is disturbing you. You're not just investigating. Something has come in. Something is hitting you. Something is disturbing you. It's the call. You know, Abraham, I was having a very nice time with him. I was having a very nice life in Ur of the Chaldees, but he heard the call. Get out. And he got out. And as a result, we've heard of him. Moses was having a very nice life as a royal person in Egypt. He was a prince. And he heard the call. And he had to identify with slaves. His life was very disturbed. He started to say, instead of being comfortable, what really matters? Is there a God? If there's a God, He's the only thing that matters. If there is no God, maybe nothing matters. You know, they start to ask the big questions. It can come to you a thousand ways. It's coming to some of you now, and you don't know it. Illness. A failure. A school you couldn't get into. A tremendous disappointment in a relationship. And what happens is, what's going on? You start to say, you know, what is my life really about? What is life all about? What's happening is, something is coming after you. In the beginning, that's how it starts. But in the end, near the end of the process of the gospel becoming a power and bringing you to Christ, you start to get a sense of the glory of Christ. The gospel is the glory of Christ. In other words, let me put it to you this way. The word glory is a very interesting and important word. It means weight. And the way you know that the gospel is coming to you is that though you may have heard all your life that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, suddenly, as you're thinking and maybe considering these things, the weight of who he claims to be begins to press down on you and disturb you. You may say, I've gone to church all my life. I've always believed that Jesus is the Son of God. If you have never sensed the totalitarian nature of his claims, his claims are totalitarian in nature. That means if he is who he says he is, you cannot be halfway about him. You have no right to be halfway about him. You don't have the rights over your life anymore. You've got to throw everything down and say, command me to him. You see, when the call, when the gospel becomes a power, you begin to sense the glory of Christ. If you've never sensed the glory, if you've never had this disturbance, if you haven't become radicalized, then this hasn't happened to you. See, for example, at the end of that great radio talk that C.S. Lewis did many years ago, called What Are We to Make of Jesus Christ, at the very end he says, have you ever heard what Jesus really said? He says, let me put it to you in just slightly more modern English. He says, Jesus says, no one can reach ultimate reality except through me. If you try to retain rights over your own life, inevitably it will be ruined, but only if you give your life away completely to me will you be saved. If you're afraid of me when you hear this call, I will look the other way, when I come again as God without disguise. If there's anything keeping you from me, whatever it is, throw it away. If it's your eye, pluck it out. If it's your hand, cut it off. Nothing, nothing is worth losing me. Come to me. Whatever your load, even your sin, I will take it off you. I am life. I am resurrection. I am recreation. Don't be afraid. I've overcome the universe. Eat me. Drink me. I am life itself. Apart from me, there is none. And Lewis ends like this. He says, what are we to make of Christ? That's not the issue. The issue is entirely, what does he intend to make of us? Now, how do you know the gospel has come to you? When you start to realize the issue is not, what am I going to do with Jesus? Well, in other words, if you're still into a cost-benefit mode with Christianity, if you're still saying, well, you know, I would like something in my life. I'm missing something. But, you know, some Christians have this particular viewpoint. Ooh, I wouldn't like that. Do I have to believe in that? And if I got too Christian, there'd be some of my friends that would look at me kind of funny. You're in this kind of cost-benefit mode. The gospel hasn't come to you yet. The gospel is only words. It's not power yet. Because when it becomes power, you see the glory. Are any of you disturbed by Christianity? Are you upset by Christianity? Are any of you feel like you're probably going to leave here? You're upset? It's a very good sign. On the other hand, don't you see? Power! Deep conviction! But on the other hand, are some of you here saying, well, I've always believed Jesus Christ is the Son of God. I think, you know, you can overdo this religion stuff. Yeah, it's a very bad sign. You know you're becoming a Christian through the gospel if it becomes a power. Thirdly, you know you're becoming a Christian through the gospel, but you don't know when you come to see your false rescues. In other words, now, look at verse 10. This is the summary of the gospel. You turned from idols to serve the living and true God and to wait for the Son from heaven, Jesus Christ, who was raised from the dead, who rescues us from the coming wrath. Now, here's what the gospel is. The gospel, of course, you say, well, I've heard the gospel. The gospel is that Jesus Christ rescues us from the coming wrath. Jesus Christ, because he lived the life I should have lived and died the death I should have died, he can rescue me from the condemnation that I deserve. That's the gospel. But when it really has become a power, it completely alters the way you understand the alternatives between Christ and the life you're living. Now, here's what I mean. Most people, until the gospel has really dawned on them and has really become a power, until the gospel has really become a power, you think the alternatives are either I can control my own life and be free or I can turn over control to Jesus. And that's what you think the alternative is. I was reading a Christian magazine for young teenagers and in it, the magazine article went like this. It said, you know, it's not enough just to believe that Jesus died for you. You have to ask Jesus in. You know what that means? You have to give total control of your life. You have to stop living selfishly. You have to say, Lord, come into my life. I'm living for you now. I'm sorry for living selfishly. Forgive me. Now, that's partly true and like most half-truths, that's misleading. Many people believe that this is what it means to be a Christian. Instead of living my own life and being free, I should do everything for him. I should live according to what the Bible says. I should pray a lot. I should give myself. Either I can be free or I can give myself to him. But when the gospel hits you, when the gospel begins to clarify those things, it begins to show you something. Verse 10 is a little bit of a problem for a lot of commentators because it says, you turn from idols to serve the living and true God and wait for the one who will rescue from the wrath to come. Now, the reason it's a problem is if you go back to Acts chapter 17, you will see that the Christians in the first church at Thessalonica were not like the Christians in Corinth. The Corinthian new Christians were converted out of paganism and they really did worship idols. But the early Christians, the new Christians from Thessalonica had been converted either from Judaism as Jews or else they were Gentiles who worshipped the God of the Bible, the God of Israel. They weren't idol worshippers. And yet Paul says, you turn from idols. How can he do that? Here's why. What Paul says here and what Paul says everywhere, here's what the gospel says. The gospel says that everybody in this room has a sense of the coming wrath. You may believe that you are an enlightened person and you don't know that you believe in God. You certainly don't believe in judgment. You certainly don't believe in hell. And yet everybody, everybody has a sense of condemnation. There's a voice in all of us that tell us we're fools, we're jerks, we're failures and we're all trying to do something about that voice. With some of us, it's very loud and our bad family background might have aggravated that voice but it doesn't cause the voice. We all have a sense of the wrath to come. We all have a sense that there's something wrong with us. We all have a sense that we have to prove ourselves. Everybody's got it. And as a result, we wait on something to rescue us. See, when Paul says, you turn from idols to serve a living and true God and wait for the one who rescues you from heaven, Jesus Christ, he's implying, well, he's saying the reverse is true. The alternative to being a Christian is to find some other salvation something else that will rescue you from the wrath that is to come. And whatever you find that salvation to be, it will be that which you serve. It'll be your master. It'll be your tyrant. So the issue is not, the alternatives are not, either I can be my own boss or I can make God my boss, in which case, becoming a Christian is to be a good person. Or I can see that I'm trying to save myself from this sense of wrath by living up to a career that I've been to a relationship, to an achievement, to money. I'm trying to live up in something. I'm waiting for something to rescue me. And whatever it is, that is going to drive me all my life. And therefore, I can either do self-salvation or else I can go to Jesus Christ, the only one who will rescue me from wrath. You see, a Christian who begins to understand the gospel, you realize the alternative is not, can I be free or do I have to become a Christian? The gospel tells us you can either be a slave to salvation, rescue systems that will drive you into the ground and never get rid of that sense of condemnation. Or, you can go to the Lord Jesus Christ, the one who took the wrath and therefore can save you from it. Do you think I'm exaggerating? Look, you know, I mentioned this last Sunday night. Most of you wouldn't have heard this, but, you know, the feminists are right in saying they hate the Cinderella syndrome many women have. Many women are looking for a rescuer. Many women are looking for a man to come along and give them a good life. But I try to point out, yeah, that's your fairy tale. You know, a lot of you women, that's your fairy tale. Cinderella, I need a rescuer. I need some man to come along and just make me, lift me up out of the drudgery of my life and lift me up out of the slavery and give me this great life. But, you know, us guys, we also have a sense of condemnation. And we say, we have beauty in the beast. We are the frog prince. We don't like ourselves. We have all sorts of problems with a sense that we're failures and we just need this beautiful girl to come along and to somehow look beneath all the mess and kiss us and turn us into something as beautiful as she is. Harold Abrams, in Chariots of Fire, says, why am I running? I've got 10 seconds every time I run that 100 meter dash to justify my existence. What is he doing? Rocky says to Adrian, the reason I want to go 15 rounds with Apollo Creed, the reason I don't want to be knocked out, I just want to go to distance. Why? Then I'll know I'm not a bum. What's going on? Don't you see? We all have a sense of condemnation. We all want to know we're not a bum. We all feel that we're Cinderella. We all feel that we're beasts. We all feel our existence isn't justified. Everybody in this room has got something that you are hoping will rescue you from that sensation. Everybody. And you know what that means? That means whatever it is, that thing is what you serve. It's your master. And I can prove it to you. Is there anything you can think of that if you were to lose it, your life wouldn't have meaning anymore? You wouldn't even be able to go on. There'd be no way for you to face the future. There'd be no hope anymore. There'd be nothing to wait for. Nothing to wait for. And you say, sure, I can think of things like that. In fact, some of you right now, would you take a look at your emotions, look at your worry, look at your fear, look at your bitterness, follow the emotion back down. It's because there's something that you think will rescue you that's in danger or something that you think will rescue you has been taken away. The gospel will show you not that you can either have freedom or Christ. The gospel shows you, you can either have slavery or Christ. And those are the only two alternatives. And when you see that, the gospel has dawned on you. Don't you see? There is a handsome prince. There is a beauty who sees us underneath our ugliness and who kisses us anyway. There's the one who took the wrath. Jesus Christ. Now, when you see the glory of that, you turn. Now, I told you there was a third thing. What does it mean to be a Christian? The gospel. Secondly, the gospel has become a power. But then thirdly, the gospel has to show you that it's either self-salvation or salvation through Jesus. The gospel does not say, turn to the Father and say, Lord, I've been a selfish person. I've been a bad person. Now I'm going to be a good person. The gospel says, turn to the Father and say, Father, I see. That I have been trying to keep control of my own life by trying to be my own Savior and give myself out, or in a sense, contract out to other Saviors. But now I see that I'll never lose that sense of condemnation unless I see that Jesus Christ, your Son, lived the life I should have lived, died the death I should have died. Please accept me now because of what He's done. And that's the only master that won't tyrannize you. And it's the only surface that's perfect freedom. Because, you see, you see, you see, in Jeremiah, chapter 2 and 4, Jeremiah talks to the Israelites and tells them about their slavery and likens them in a kind of parable to being women adorning themselves, hoping for their lover to come and take them up. Now all of us, those of us who have banked our salvation on our career, banked our salvation on our money, banked our salvation on our looks, banked our salvation on a spouse, and that's the reason why you're continually being filled with anxiety and fear because it's never good enough. And because if those saviors jerk you around at all, you have to be jerked around. God says in Jeremiah, talking to the children of Israel, He says, What are you doing, O devastated one? Why do you dress yourself in scarlet and shade your eyes with paint? Don't you know your lovers despise you? They seek your life. Don't you know one gold medal won't be enough in the Olympics? You will not be rescued for the coming wrath. It was terrible to read the biography of Irving Berlin written by his daughter, or at least the biography had some quotes from his daughter. His daughter said, The thing Irving Berlin feared more than anything else was that he had written his last hit. It wasn't enough for him to say, Look at all the hits. He had to say, Am I through? Because you see, his salvation was his hits, songs. He lived in fear. Why? Because hit songs was his master. It will never rescue you. Never rescue you. Why do you paint your eyes? Why do you adorn yourself, O devastated one? Your lovers despise you. They seek your life. They will never. They don't love you. Only Jesus loves you. All the other slave masters hate you. Jesus is the one master who loves you. Now, would you like to know why those of us who are Christians don't really experience the incredible love, the incredible freedom, and the incredible courage that we ought to experience? I'll tell you why. Do you notice serving God and waiting for Christ are in the present tense? Do you see that? What it means to grow as a Christian is to realize that to some degree, if we don't serve God and really wait for God, for Christ alone to rescue us, it's very easy for us to fall back into looking to these other things. And that's the reason why we're worried. That's the reason why we're afraid. That's the reason why we're unhappy. William Cooper, some years ago, wrote this great hymn that had to do with how to get back with Christ, how to have a closer walk. And he puts it this way. He says, O for a closer walk with God, a calm and heavenly frame, a light to shine upon the road that leads me to the Lamb, the dearest, the dearest idol I have known, what e'er that idol be, help me to tear it from thy throne and worship only thee. While unbelief withstands thy grace and puts the mercy by, presumption with a brow of brass says give me or I die. Do you see this? While unbelief withstands thy grace and puts the mercy by, presumption with a brow of brass says give me or I die. The dearest idol I have known what e'er that idol be, help me to cast it from thy throne and worship only thee. William Cooper knew this. What he said was, Christians have to look at their idols. And when they come to the Lord's table, you have to see that there's some things in your life that with a brow of brass you're saying, give me this or I die. That's your problem. The dearest idol you've known, cast it from the throne, serve, wait only for him, and you will see yourself in the Lord. You will see yourself becoming more and more like him. You will see your faith producing work. You will see your love prompting. You will see your hope inspiring like the Thessalonians. Let's meet him at the table. Let's stop saying give me or I die. Let's cast the idols from the throne. Let's pray. Our Father, we thank you that at this place, at your table, we can meet you, and Lord, there are some people here who have never understood what it means to be a Christian, and I pray that you would help them today to take you up as you have been taking them up. To say, accept me because of what your son has done. To see the only alternative to service to the Lord Jesus Christ is slavery to a false rescuer who will always leave them at the altar. Father, I pray for those people. I also pray for those of us who today have to leave. We have to realize that to a great degree we still need to cast the idols away and that we need to serve and wait exclusively for you. Help us to know the joy of those who have found that your service and your service alone is perfect freedom. It's in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen.