Would you take a look in your bulletin at the passage that we're getting to in our study of Galatians? We're going to look tonight, at least for a bit of time, at chapter 3. What I'm going to do tonight, well, you know, if I don't seem as loud as usual, it's not because the mic needs to be turned up, it doesn't actually at all, But I'd like to take you some places. Ordinarily, it's best to preach about things that you've been through and you've thought of and you've got it down and you've been at this for many years. And usually there's a sort of a seasoning to the teaching. But tonight I'm going to tell you about some things that I'm relatively recently coming to grips with. with, so there might be some places where I'm talking in a more reserved way. I'm going to try to take you some places that I don't usually go. Let me just read you verses 1 to 10. You foolish Galatians, who has bewitched you? Before your very eyes, Jesus Christ was clearly portrayed as crucified. I would like to learn just one thing from you. Did you receive the Spirit by observing the law or by believing what you heard? Are you so foolish? After beginning with the Spirit, are you now trying to attain your goal by human effort? Have you suffered so much for nothing, if it really was for nothing? Does God give you his Spirit and work miracles among you because you observe the law or because you believe what you heard. Consider Abraham. He believed God, and it was credited to him as righteousness. Understand then that those who believe are children of Abraham. The scripture foresaw that God would justify the Gentiles by faith and announce the gospel in advance to Abraham. All nations will be blessed through you. So those who have faith are blessed along with Abraham,

Let's just stop right there. Now, all of our personal problems and practical problems are really theological ones. All of our practical problems are theological ones. And many, maybe even most, not all, but many or most theological problems are really very practical because theology affects the way you live. Now let me say there's a problem put in front of us, and it's a huge problem. And there's a theological way to put it. And there's a more practical way to put it. And I want you to see both. Okay. Let me put it in the theological way. The theological problem is how does a Christian who, when you are saved, when you become a Christian, when you cross When that happens, you receive imputed righteousness. And how do you move beyond imputed righteousness to imparted righteousness? How do you move beyond being accepted by God as righteous to actually living a righteous life? Now that's the theological way of putting it. How do you move from imputed righteousness to imparted righteousness? Now the more practical way is this. Fairly simple. a Christian. And you realize you're forgiven and pardoned. And God loves you. However, you see. You look at yourself. And you say. You know. What. I still tend. To. Keep. Grudges. And. I still. Have. Trouble. Forgiving. My. Mother. In. Law. And. I. Still. Have. Trouble. With. Anger. Fear. Here. And. There. Or. I. Still. Have. Trouble. With. Self. Control. I. Still. Got. Problem. How. Do. I. Now. That. I. Know. I. Accept. That. I. Know. God. Loves. Me. I. Know. He. Forgives. Me. But. The. Trouble. Is. I. Can't. Move. move beyond that? How do I get more humble? How do I get more honest? How do I get stronger? How do I get more love and joy and self-control? How do I actually grow? Now that I'm in, how do I move ahead? Paul gives us a radical answer. You can see it especially in verse 2 and 3, but the whole passage is about this. And when I say it's radical, I must say it's not only radical, but it's not very well understood at all. And I'm not sure that I'll be able to tonight get all the way The whole book of Galatians is about it. So let's look. Essentially what Paul is saying is that the way you get into the Christian faith, the way you enter the Christian faith is exactly the same way you advance in the Christian faith. There is no difference. The way you come in and the way you enter the kingdom is exactly the same way. In other words, the same tool, you might say the same means through which you enter is the way in which It's not like we have one way of becoming Christians and then another way of growing as Christians. And let me show you, first of all, the tools on the way in. Now, this may not be all that revolutionary to you if you've been listening, if you've been coming to the evening services, but here's what Paul says. Verses 1-2, he's telling how the Galatians became Christians. He says, before your very eyes, Jesus Christ was clearly portrayed as crucified. and he says, did you receive the Spirit by observing the law or by believing what you heard? Now, it's pretty simple. What he's actually saying is, I originally preached Jesus Christ and him crucified to you, and you believed it, and you stopped observing the law, and you began to, instead of resting in what the law is, you stopped observing the law, and you began to rest in Christ. And he gives a case study down in verse 6, which is a perfect example, perfect example of what it means to become a Christian. He says, consider Abraham, look here, he believed God and it was credited to him as righteousness. Now if you go back, this is a quote from Genesis 15, verse 6. And back in Genesis 15, here's what we read. But Abram said,

possession of it. So the Lord says, bring me a heifer, a goat, and a ram, each three years old, along with a dove and young pigeons. And Abram brought all these things to him, cut them in two, and arranged the halves opposite each other. But the sun was setting, and Abram fell into a deep sleep, and a thick and dreadful darkness came over him. And then the Lord said to him, know for a certain that though your descendants will be strangers in a country not their own, and they will be enslaved for many years, I will punish the nation, I will bring them out in the fourth And when the sun had set and darkness had fallen, a smoking firepot with a blazing torch appeared and passed between the pieces. This is the passage that Paul goes back to try to explain what it means to become a Christian. And what he says is, when Abram believed God, notice it doesn't say he believed in God. What makes you a Christian is not a general belief in God. What makes you a Christian is not just believing in God, but he believed God. See that. You know, we're in Galatians here, verse 6. He believed God. It was a message. And what was the message? The message was very specific. In fact, verse 7 here in Galatians tells us, and verse 8, excuse me, that this was the gospel, that God was giving the gospel to Abraham. And what God said to Abraham was this. He says, I am going to save the whole world through a descendant of yours. So what he's saying is salvation will not happen through attainment. Salvation will happen through divine intervention, and salvation will happen through one person, one. And so salvation is, this is the promised Messiah. That's the gospel message. Of course, nowhere near as filled out and full as we have it. But that was the gospel message, that the world's not going to be saved through attainment, but through intervention. Not through attainment, but through atonement. Except, you know, Abram didn't know that. And through one person. And we're told when Abram believed that, it was credited to him as righteousness. Now that word credited is so important in the Bible. Because the word credited, it's translated here, credited. In the old King James Bible, it's translated reckoned. And the reason it's not translated that way here is because reckon sounds like Paul's from Texas. But I reckon, but you see, the word reckon, the word reckon or the word credited translates a Greek word that is an accounting word, and it really means to count, to count as. It's an accounting word, which means if you, if you work like crazy to earn a million dollars, and then it's transferred into my account,

people, it's mine. I have the value of it. It's mine. See? I didn't work. I didn't do a thing. But it's still mine. It's in my account. It's in my name. And because it's in my name, the value of it accrues to me, comes to me. Here we're told righteousness. We're told not that Abraham became righteous. The minute he believed the gospel message, he didn't become righteous. He was counted as righteous. He didn't work for it. But it was transferred into his account, and now it's in his name. And what this means is he has the value of it. That means that God treats him as righteous. And that's what it means to become a Christian. Because if you put verse 6 and 7 here, and 8, especially verse 6, up with verse 1 and 2, it's pretty simple. Paul said, you became a Christian when you stopped relying on the law, when you stopped observing the law, and you began to say it's what Jesus Christ and him crucified, And when you believe in that, believe in Christ as your Savior, you get a new status. You get imputed righteousness. Not imparted. You don't become good. You don't become loving. You don't become fine. You don't become unselfish. You're counted as good and fine and unselfish. You're counted as perfect. You become a beauty to God. Now, how does that happen? Notice in verse 1. Paul is very odd. Paul says, Christ was clearly portrayed as crucified. And that is very odd language, because what he's saying there is, he's talking about preaching, but he talks about their eyes. Now, they could not have seen anything physical. No way. Before your very eyes, Jesus was portrayed as crucified. What is Paul talking about? It's very important in the Bible, extremely important, that the Bible uses sensory language whenever we move from intellectual knowledge to heart belief. That's the reason why Job, God speaks to Job out of a whirlwind. Remember at the end of Job, chapter 42, and Job says, I heard of you with my ears, but now I see you with my eyes. But he didn't see him with his eyes. There was nothing to see. It didn't appear. It was just a wind and a voice. What's he talking about? It's probably talking about the same thing when Paul says in Romans 7, I always knew the command, thou shalt not covet. But one day the commandment came and I died. Now Paul must have always known about the command, thou shalt not covet. I mean, he was raised up. He would have known the Ten Commandments from the time he could speak. And he says that I knew the commandment, thou shalt not covet, but it never came to me. I heard the commandment, thou shalt not covet, but I didn't see it. Same thing. In Ephesians 1.18, he prays for the Ephesian Christians that the eyes of their hearts might be enlightened so they might know the hope and the power and the riches of their inheritance. Don't they know about the hope? Don't they know about the riches of their inheritance? Of course they know. They're Christians. And what's he praying for? He's praying that they might not just hear but see it. And the word, by the way, it's translated clearly portrayed. In Greek, literally, it's the word graphically. What Paul is saying is, you had some facts about the gospel. Jesus Christ died on the cross, and then they might have known about them, but they began to believe it from the heart. They began to taste it. They began to see it. They got a sense of it. It became real to them. It was no longer just a concept. It hit them in the heart. That's how they became Christians. how do you become a Christian? You get facts about that Jesus Christ is your Savior. You mustn't rely on your good works. You have to trust in him. And when that grabs you in the heart, that means you move into the realm of faith and you get imputed righteousness, and that makes you a Christian. And that's it. Now, here's the thing. Suddenly, the question comes up, and I just heard this last April. I was sitting around a table with a bunch of ministers,

question. We all know that we have imputed righteousness. We all know that. We all know that God loves us and accepts us. And you know, that's a great comfort. Of course it's a great comfort. It's a tremendous thing. But it doesn't seem to help. Because how do I get imparted righteousness? How do I actually become like Jesus Christ? How do I become Christ-like? I know that I'm like Christ in God's eyes. I know I have imputed. How do I get imparted? And here's what almost everybody does. Almost everybody. We believe we are justified by faith. But we believe really, really hard. We believe that we get imputed righteousness not by doing anything, but just believing. I just believe. I look at Jesus. I see the beauty of what he's done on the cross. It hits me in the heart, and I rest in that, and that's what brings me into the kingdom of God. But when it comes to advancing in the kingdom, like I'm having trouble forgiving my mother-in-law. Now, I don't really, by the way, but I'm using this. I'm having trouble forgiving. forgiving. I'm having trouble forgiving somebody. Okay, now, I know God forgives me. I know I have imputed righteousness. I know that's covered. I know he's not going to hurt me with that. I know I'm not lost because of that. But how do I get over it? And the answer most people have is, I'm going to try really, really hard. I'm a Christian. Look at Jesus on the cross, forgiving his enemies. I have to be like that. I'm going to try real hard. Paul says, no. no. And maybe all I'm going to get a chance tonight to do is to shake up. He says, no, no. And take a look. Verse two, I would like to learn one thing. Did you receive the spirit by observing the law or by believing what you heard? Okay. He says, the way you became a Christian was you got rid of works righteousness in your life. You stopped relying on the law. You relied on Christ. You stopped trusting that God will accept me because of what I do. And you began to trust in what Jesus has done. In fact, you looked at it, and it graphically was portrayed to your heart. Okay. He says, that's how you began. But now look. Are you so foolish? After beginning with the Spirit, are you now trying to attain your goal by human effort? Verse 5. Does God? Now look. Verse 5 just looks like verse 2, but it's in the present tense. He doesn't say, did God? God gave you a Spirit. He says, God gives you a Spirit. and works miracles among you, not because you observe the law, but because you not believed, but believe. Paul is saying, if you're having trouble with self-control, you can't control your sexual appetite, if you're having trouble forgiving somebody, you will get through that problem, you will advance in that problem exactly the same way you got into the faith, you will move through that faith. He says, you don't get into faith by eschewing your good works and by relying in Jesus Christ and then move forward by trying really hard. He says, the only reason the Spirit of God is working in your life and doing miracles in your life is to the degree that you continue to believe, that you continue to have the work of Jesus Christ graphically portrayed to you. To the degree that you continually see that. Now you say, how could that be? The rest of the book of Galatians is going to get into this in great detail, but I'll put it to you like this. Let's go back to that forgiveness thing. It says here, why would he be talking to Christians about this? Why would he say all who rely on the law? All who rely on observing the law. See, by the way, notice in verse 10, Paul is not saying Christians don't observe the law. He doesn't say they don't, oh, they say, hey, you're a Christian. Now you can do anything you want. You can lie, you can cheat, you can steal. a law. They don't rely on observing a law. The key here is law keeping, law breaking. That's not the important thing. It's law relying. See, it's one thing to say, I'm living a good life. We should live a good life. It's another thing to rely on that. To make that your hope. To make that the thing that enables you to look yourself in the mirror or that which makes you able to stand before God or that which makes you able to see the whole world around you and say, look at me. I'm okay. You see, the question is not whether you're breaking the law or keeping the law. Of course you should keep the law. But that's not the issue here. Paul says all those who rely on the law are under a curse. Why is he saying that to Christians? Why is he pushing this on Christians? Because Christians can go back and still do it to some degree. and that's profound. Do you have a sense of condemnation? Are you anxious? Are you touchy with criticism? See, when people criticize you, do you kind of go to pieces? When you fail, do you kind of all fall apart? Do you see what's going on here? You're relying on the law. There's still a kind of curse on you. There's still a sense of condemnation on you, and let's go back now. If you say I'm having trouble, I hear this all the time. I've had say to me all the time. I know I'm a Christian, and I know what I've done is, I know God forgives me, but I can't forgive myself. Or somebody says, I've got this terrible grudge, and I know God forgives me for it, but I can't seem to get rid of it. I want you to think with me for a second. This tells me, Paul says, the way that the Spirit works in your life is you go back again and again, and you see, you see the work of Christ on your behalf again, you have to say, the reason you got the problem you have is something besides Jesus Christ is operating functionally as your Savior. You are back into works righteousness. You are back to some degree under the law, to some degree. And all of your sins must be coming from that because every single place in the advancement of the Christian life, your advancement doesn't come from trying harder. it comes from what? Believing, going back, the very same thing. He says, having started that way, are you going to try to end a different way? That's the whole point of verse 3. When a person comes and says to me,

I know God forgives me, that's imputed righteousness, but I can't forgive myself. I can't get over the guilt. You know what I say? I say, oh, no, no, no, that's not it. There's something besides Jesus Christ that you've got to have. Something besides Jesus Christ that's really functioning as your salvation. Something you're performing. Something you're trying to get. You say, if I can perform that. If I can attain that through my effort. Then I can look at myself. Then I can feel good about myself. You know what that is? It's a pseudo-salvation. It's a works righteousness. It's a false righteousness. What is it? Usually when somebody says, I can't forgive myself. What they mean is. is I have got another righteousness,

athletics or relationships, and I blew a relationship, and I felt that because I did something stupid, she's out of my life forever, and I can't forgive myself. What you mean is the thing that you felt that was really your savior, that is not forgiving you. Approval or power or accomplishment in athletics or your career. That to some degree is operating as your human effort, your righteousness, see, your pseudo-salvation, and it won't forgive you. And what you have to do is you have to look at that thing, and then you have to look at Jesus Christ, and you have to say, I don't need you if I've got him. And until you begin to see that, that you're never going to be able to overcome your guilt. Okay, you say, I'm having trouble forgiving somebody. I know God forgives me, but I can't seem to forgive this person. You have to say, why can't you forgive that person? Almost always it's because there's something that person is keeping from you that you feel like you've got to have. And if you don't have it, then there's something deep inside. You're worthless. You're incomplete. But you have to look at Jesus and say, if I have Him, I don't need that. And what that does is it demotes that to the place where you can get over it. You can get over it. You can say, why am I still so angry? I've got Him. You will be a Christian behaviorist unless you understand what's going on here. You will be somebody who never works on the motivations of your heart but always works on your behavior. You'll say, I shouldn't be worried. I shouldn't be out of control. I shouldn't be angry. I shouldn't feel guilty. This is wrong. write on it instead of looking underneath. Paul says, your problem always, always, always is, you think you believe in Jesus the Savior, you don't. Let me close with one more. I didn't even get a chance, we'll have to come back and take a look more at Abraham. My favorite example of this is a great example of this. When Stephen, when Stephen was about to be executed. And he shouldn't have been executed. This was a, it was unjust. This terrible court. They were about to execute him. And it was a miscarriage of justice. And they were rejecting him. And they were saying he was a heretic. And they were saying he was horrible. And we're told he looked to heaven. And he said, I see heaven open. And I see Jesus Christ standing at the right hand of God. Standing. Now most of the places in the Bible, Jesus is sitting. Because sitting is always, means authority, sitting at the right hand of God. But for Jesus to be standing means he's standing in the court, and he's standing before the bar of justice, and he's standing as Stephen's high priest, because actually that's what the sermon was all about. Very interesting, but I can't go into all that. And Stephen says, I see the Son of Man standing at the right hand of God. And his face was like the face of an angel. And as they stoned him, he fell asleep saying, father, forgive them. You know, don't hold this to their account. Now, here's why he was able to do that. He didn't just say, I'm a Christian. I've got to be forgiving. I hate these people, but I've got to be forgiving. So I'm a Christian and I've got to be strong. I've got to be strong. This is how you're doing it. What happened? He had Jesus Christ portrayed graphically to him. He didn't see Christ. I don't think he looked because he saw Christ. I think he saw Christ because he looked. I don't think he looked to heaven because he saw Jesus. I think he saw Jesus because he looked to heaven. What he did was he realized that even though these people down here were condemning him, in the only court that mattered, he was a beautiful. he was pardoned, he was righteous. And what he was doing is he's saying, I don't need this if I've got this. And his heart was just transformed. It was picked up. It was taken. That is what you've got to do. Of course you have to try. Of course you have to stop doing the bad things. But first you've got to go underneath, Paul says. Or else you'll just be back into relying on the law. Do you see? Let's pray. Our Father, we ask that you'd help us to understand this I thank you. This is just the introduction to this whole idea. As we go on in the book of Galatians, I pray that we might more and more understand what this means so we can learn how to work on our heart. So we can see that the only reason we ever lack imparted righteousness is because we are not living in the joy of our imputed righteousness. That our imparted righteousness is there to the degree that we are living out of and rejoicing in our imputed righteousness. And our imparted righteousness is lacking always when we forget who we are in Jesus and who he is to us. We pray that you grant for us all now that we would understand these things, apply them to our lives through your spirit. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.