Let's pray.

Our Father, the world needs nothing more than it needs to see you exalted and lifted up. And we, the believers, need nothing more than to see you exalted and lifted up. Exalted in your mercy. Exalted in your holiness. Exalted in your wisdom. Exalted in your majesty.

thank you that through song, through corporate praise as a community, we've just seen you in a way we didn't before we entered into worship together. We pray that you would truly change us through our times together, through our worship together, through our teaching together, so that we really can permanently live as people who just see you high and lifted up. We pray this in Jesus' name. men. Please have a seat. Now, for the next half hour or so, we're going to continue with a series. The first half of the year, September, October, November, December, the MCM subjects had to do with spirituality and prayer. And the second half of the year, our subjects have been topics in communicating the gospel, communicating the gospel to people that don't know it or don't it or don't believe it. And I've been doing a series on defeaters, and there's a slight interruption in that series tonight that some of you say you want to be the first person on your block to collect all the handouts on the defeaters. And we'll continue, and probably into next year as well. And defeaters, for those of you who are guests, defeaters are common beliefs that secular people have that they believe sort of trump Christian beliefs. So, you know, how could you believe in a God who allows evil and suffering? How could you say Jesus is the only way? And that's what we've been looking at. But it has been occurring to me as we've been going through it, as I've been talking to people, that we've really got to make sure we understand the context for how Redeemer believes we should be communicating the gospel in the city. These handouts I've been giving you are not little tools you can use on people. Redeemer is not basically a place or we just equip people with arguments to go out and persuade non-believers to believe. Redeemer is even not basically a place that sort of runs services, and we have an evangelism department. We have certain people who like to do that sort of thing. What I want to do tonight is talk to you about the very structure of Redeemer, the very concept of how Redeemer sees itself being a church that is communicating the gospel and embodying the gospel all the time in every aspect, of its ministry. It's important for you as leaders to understand this, because Redeemer is not unique exactly, but it's certainly different. In other words, Redeemer, let me put it to you real, real briefly in a nutshell. Redeemer seeks to be a community that includes people who don't believe, people on spiritual pilgrimages, people who are skeptical. To some degree, we're a Christian community that can include those people. And in a context of spiritual friendship, communicate the gospel and embody the gospel and engage people who don't believe in absolutely every aspect of our ministry. Not just to equip you to do evangelism, not just to have programs to do evangelism. Redeemer, in a certain sense, as you can see from the very topics, we see Redeemer as not a church that has a mission or does mission, but a church that is missional. Because the word mission comes a Latin word to be sent. And what I want to show you is Redeemers, every aspect of Redeemer is in sentness. Okay? You can quote me. Because nobody will know what you're talking about. Every aspect of Redeemer is missional. Every aspect of Redeemer is in sentness. And therefore, one of the things I've noticed, and I've mentioned this on here, is over the years, There's, Redeemer is constantly flooded with new people. There's constantly people in our services, in our small groups, in all of our ministries who don't believe or who are trying to believe or in different states of belief and questioning and so on. And yet there's not a single person on the staff. We have a lot of people on staff. Not a single one of them have as their job, evangelize. Nobody has as their job, go out and find people who don't believe and try to get them to come to church. church. Every staff person is just trying to deal with all the people that are coming. So, where are they coming from? What program are we using? Who's doing this? And the answer is, Redeemer itself is a missional church. And that's the reason why we always will have doubters in our midst. Welcome. Now, what does that mean? Let me give you a little bit of background. I did half of this talk, by the way, with the staff. And I'm going to spend more time with the staff trying to help them understand this concept of Redeemer as a missional church, so that you can understand, as leaders, how to lead. You can't know how to lead in the church unless you know something about the concept. And what I want to do is I want to, the first half, take about 10 minutes to kind of explain the idea of a missional church. And then I want to talk, though about seven qualities that Redeemer has that are the qualities of a missional church. And I'm going to apply them to small groups because most of you here tonight are small group leaders. And I'll try to get this brick down to earth and show you just how this applies to small groups. So take a look here in the first page and I'm going to try to do what I usually do with handouts, which is sort of run through it very quickly, figuring since you've got the whole thing there, you can always go back and read it and figure it out later if I go by awfully fast. Number one, let me talk to you about a concept that I'll call Christendom. The concept of Christendom is Western culture, Europe, North America, from about the 9th century to about the 19th century. About 1,000 years, we can talk about the relationship of culture to Christianity in the West as under the term Christendom. You can call it Christendom. What is Christendom? Put down here, for roughly 1,000 years, the relationship between Christianity and public culture existed called Christendom. really Christianized people culturally. Schools actively taught it. Other institutions stigmatized non-Christian behavior. And so the culture pressed you to be a Christian. If you weren't a Christian or you didn't believe in the Bible or you didn't have Christian values and Christian ethics and Christian ways of thinking, you were considered odd or very strange. So the culture coercively pressed people. I'll give you some more examples as we go along. But if you look at the end of the first paragraph. To Christianize a person, which means to make them say the Bible is true, Christian ethics are true. To kind of Christianize a person without regenerating their heart through grace is to create basically a conservative traditional person. A person with kind of conservative traditional values but not grace in the heart. That's what Christendom did. I know that's a pretty negative way of putting it but I'll show you why. At least when it comes to the church, it's important to understand. Keep going. Next paragraph. Now, what's the role of the church in Christendom? In Christendom, the role of the church was to reconfirm and process a Christianized person into personal commitment and membership. I mean, this first hit me when I was reading David Martin Lloyd-Jones' lectures on revival that he preached in London in the late 50s. I think it was 1959, which was the 100th anniversary of the great awakenings and revivals that happened in parts of the British Isles in the late 1850s. And Lloyd-Jones says, he says, we're in a different situation today. Now, he's talking about Britain, he's talking about Europe 50 years ago, and Europe was ahead of us on this. He said, when he was a boy, which would have been 1890s, that sort of thing, he says, when he was a boy, everybody was Christianized, even though not many people were Christians. And he says, the way the church did its evangelism and the way the church did renewal fulfilled, was that gathered people, got them into a building, looked at them and said, you know what you should be doing. You know what you ought to be doing. You know how you ought to be living. And everybody would hang their head. Yes, you're right, preacher. And he says that's the way it was. I mean, that's what the church had to do. The church assumed the Christian culture, in a sense, a Christianized culture. Assumed the Christian people with a basic understanding of these things. And you could just exhort them and say, say, you know what you ought to be doing. And they'd all say, you're right. He says, but now in 1959, if a minister says to the average British person, you know what you ought to be doing, they say, what are you talking about? The culture had changed. But in the beginning, we'll get to that in a second. But the original approach of a church in Christendom was you process people who were already basically Christianized. See, I put down here, number one, Christianized people were deeply programmed to show up at church at some time in their life. A, if you wanted to be considered part of the establishment of any town, you needed to belong to a church or a synagogue in America. You were excluded from social, civil, cultural power if you didn't toe the line. Peter Drucker, the famous management writer and author, when he first got a job in America, he moved to Hoboken, New Jersey in 1937, and he tried to get a mortgage on his home. And the bank president said, we would like a letter of reference about your character from either a priest, a minister, or a rabbi. And Peter Drucker, being a European, thought this if I don't have a priest, a minister, or a rabbi, he says, well, we wouldn't trust anybody like that. The president of the main bank of Hoboken, because in Christendom, there was cultural coercion to say, if you want to get up in the world, you've got to bow to the Christian faith in some way. Also, when people were programmed to show up at major transitions, if you had your first child, you got married, there was a crisis in your life, you showed up. And when they did show up, the church's job was to say, you know what you should be doing, get to it. And let me press it, one more example of this. My in-laws, who are, you know, my wife's parents and my parents, my parents were evangelical Christians. My wife's parents were really very nominal people. I mean, one was Catholic, one was sort of nominally Presbyterian. And definitely, if you look carefully, you'll see one group was conservative, traditional, evangelical Christians. and one couple were just sort of mainstream people. The only difference between them is they smoked and drank. They didn't. Apart from that, there was no difference in the actual way that they looked at things. Their understanding of America, their understanding of sexuality, their understanding of their ethics, their mores. In every way, they were almost the same. This isn't true anymore.

It's a very uncomplicated process under Christendom It's an uncomplicated process because you basically use guilt. You don't have to do much in the way of persuasion, attraction, or illumination, or explanation. You use guilt. You say you know what you ought to do, and that's the way it worked. Now, number two, that's over. I'll be fast about this part, even though, as you can see as I go through it, there's a lot of interesting stuff to think about in here. Christendom is essentially over. The broader cultural institutions do not Christianize folk for the church so that the church can confirm and process them. The new folk culture, by the way, the new folk culture of America anyway, with its stories, its ethics, its worldview, its categories, is profoundly changed. It is not, and a lot of people say, it's not like we used to be conservative and now it's gone liberal. It is fundamentally secular and radically individualistic. And if you really are a fair-minded person, you would know that people on the left are every bit as frustrated as people on the right, with secular culture because it is so radically individualistic and selfish. I mean, in other words, it's not like it used to be conservative, now it's gone liberal. That's not it. It used to be basically Christian in its fundamental categories, but it's moved to a radically individualistic and secular nature. And, number B, where? This has not happened uniformly. This has not happened everywhere at once. United States, and even parts of the Midwest, Christianity as a folk culture is still fairly strong. The local ethos still puts pressure on people to believe along the old Christendom model. But in Europe, Canada, Australia, and Northeast United States, and the upper Midwest and the West Coast, Christendom is gone. And I have this little quote from Michael Wolfe out of the New York Magazine. And he says, that's the reason why in America right now, you still do have this kind of You see the footnote at the bottom? There's a fundamental schism in American cultural, political, and economic life. There's the quicker-growing, economically vibrant, morally relativist, urban-oriented, culturally adventuresome, sexually polymorphous, ethnically diverse nation. And there's the small-town, nuclear-family, religiously oriented, white-centric other America with its diminishing cultural and economic force. Two nations. But he's right in saying that the cultural institutions

not the second nation. Therefore, Christendom continues to erode, turn over. There's a lot of interesting reasons why I'm just going to skip that paragraph, if you don't mind. But look here. If I read it, I'll take too long. Look here. Christendom had the seeds of its own destruction in it. Because when it's expected that you go to church, when the culture expects you and you go to church or you make Christian noises or you adopt Christian positions because of that expectation and cultural coercion, you've got several things that always go wrong. Number one, you have nominalism. You have people who have the form but not the power. They say they're Christians, but they don't actually have converted hearts to live a life of integrity. And when you're adolescent kids who will always do everything they possibly can to find inconsistencies in your life, it's in the DNA or something. I mean, you turn 13 and you immediately say, my parents are hypocrites, and if I can't prove it, I'm going make it up. But what they'll do is they'll start to look, and in Christendom, you always find enormous hypocrisy, and there's a huge percentage of the adolescents and the youth of every generation that are turned off to whatever the reigning religion is of the culture every year, every generation. Secondly, when Christianity is the expected religion, it gets into bed with power, The people in power, what it means is the church has a tendency to turn a blind eye to certain things that are being done wrong by the people in power. The perfect example of this, of course, is in New England, the church was against slavery. In the south, the church defended slavery. Why, class? Because slavery was of no economic benefit to the powers that be in New England, and it was of huge economic benefit to the powers that be in the south. So it wasn't exegesis, now was it?

that has really, many people in the West will never forgive the church for things like that. But when it gets into bed with power, these kinds of blatant inconsistencies happen. Christendom creates traditional people who tend to be narrow-minded. Christendom creates Christianized people who aren't converted. And so if a girl gets pregnant in a small town, the whole town, Christianized with not too many Christians in it, town will just treat her like a pariah because Christianized people who aren't converted, they can't see that worry and prejudice, selfishness, and materialism as everything, every bit as bad as illicit sex. You see, in other words, the Christianized people can't have humility in the way in which they handle ethics. And so all of these things mean that Christendom, whenever Christianity gets into power and becomes the ascendant thing in the culture and everybody says, let's do that, it's in trouble. Now, look at number three. Western churches in Europe and to some degree to most places in America and certainly in Canada and Australia are now on the mission field. Now, that's a big surprise to most churches. What do I mean by that? It's a B here under number three. What is it to be on a mission field? A church in the West under Christendom did missions overseas. You know, it sent people and sent money. But if you went to that overseas church it was planting, say, you know, in this overseas place, the church couldn't be said to have a mission or to do missions. That church was a mission. The church was missional in every aspect. I'll give you three examples. Leslie Newbigin, who was a British missionary to India, said that when he first came to India in the 1940s or 1950s, one of the first things he noticed was how a church in a non-Christian culture doesn't do missions. Every aspect of the church's ministry is missional. Here's three of them real quick. For example, your worship. In a non-Christian culture, every visitor and most of years or less, don't have Christian...they don't have Christian categories. They don't understand the Christian worldview. I mean, they are still pretty radically non-Christian the way they think about things. And therefore, the worship can't ignore that. The worship has to...as I put down here, the worship service has to be engaged with the cultural stories, the ethics, the worldview, the imaginative structures of the non-Christian world in the worship service itself. self. Otherwise, it won't be understandable to hardly anybody that comes, except long, long, long-time believers. So the worship has to be missional, you see? Number two, discipleship. Discipleship training in a Christendom situation assumes that the disciples are out there in kind of Christian situations, which means that your discipleship can concentrate on private life stuff, how to pray, how to study the Bible, how to share the gospel with your friends. But when I first came to New York, for example, let me just give you a quick example of this. I tried to start discipling a young man who was a new Christian, and he was an actor here in the city. And one of the first things the guy said is, well, you know, this is good. You want me to study the Bible? I want all that, but I need to know something else as a Christian. Can I take this part? I have to take my clothes off.

I said, well, how many of your clothes? All your clothes. Well, what's the situation? I suddenly realized, I said, well, that's not discipleship. And then I realized, you know, 50 years ago in Christendom, the actor was sort of out there in a kind of Christianized culture, and that issue didn't come up. Now here's a Christian guy. He's going out there in the world. And what Leslie Newbigin says is to do discipleship in a non-Christian context means you have to help the Christian know, how do I live a Christian life distinctively in a radically non-Christian context? Which means, I have to look, what parts of the culture out there can I adopt and embrace? What parts of the culture out there can I sort of use but revise? And what parts of the culture do I have to just reject? Under Christendom, you didn't have to ask that question because basically you went out there, even if you were a converted person and you lived amongst people with roughly similar views of things. Not anymore. Discipleship has to be utterly oriented to helping people not just be Christians in their private world, but in their public world, in their work world. And of course, if you know anything about Christian discipleship materials that evangelicalism has pointed out, put out in the last 50 years, you know that there's almost nothing about that, because it's working off a Christendom model. Number three, near the bottom here, Christian fellowship in a missional church was now not simply a set of supportive relationships. In Christendom, what is fellowship? It's just coming together and being warm and supportive of each other. But in a non-Christian culture, Christian fellowship is the creation of a counterculture in which you are showing the people outside an attractive picture of what it's like to live as human beings according to the gospel. And that means the Christian community now is not just a place where we support each other, world, what sex looks like if Jesus is truly the Lord, what money, how we use our money if Jesus is Lord, how we relate to one another across racial barriers. You see, suddenly Christian fellowship becomes something very different when you're surrounded by a radically non-Christian culture. Leslie Newbigin pointed out, and this is where I first began to realize it, is the average evangelical church in the West has just not made the jump. Turn over

and again, I'm not going to read this because it's going to take too long. I want to get you through the seven principles on the other side. By and large, a quick example, and I hate to pick on this, Evangelism Explosion, which was a gospel presentation that was produced by Presbyterians. It was produced by a church in the PCA, in our denomination. And if you know anything about Evangelism Explosion, it starts off like this. It says, if you were to die tonight and go before God and he were to ask you, why should I let you into my heaven? What would you say? Now, by the way, that's a great question. And if the first gives a kind of works-oriented answer, you say, well, I've tried my best. You proceed and you show them you haven't been good enough. The whole evangelism explosion gospel presentation, and I would argue the four spiritual laws, Billy Graham's peace with God, every gospel presentation that's been written in the last assumes that the people you're talking to basically have a Christianized understanding of things. Because the gospel presentations assume that the people feel that they ought to be good people, moral people, obeying the Ten Commandments, and so on. So how does that work with people who that's not their story, that's not their aspiration? By and large, Christian churches in the West don't want to admit what's happened. And what they really do is they still hope to process Christianized people. Now, that's still possible in parts of this country, and it's actually still possible even in New York City. America is still so kind of conservative in its heartland that it's fairly easy to grow your church by continuing to signal to the world that you want conservative traditional people to come. And then when you get them in the pews, you say, you know how you should be living. who are like that. And even in New York City, there are enough people coming here from the heartland that you could run a church like that and grow a church like that here and never actually be engaging and talking to, in a winsome and attractive way, the people around us, the growing, as Michael Wolf says, the growing nation of secular people. Now, what I want to show you is how you can be a church that does that. So turn on over. And there's seven principles that Redeemer is trying very, very imperfectly to apply. Seven principles of a missional church. What's a missional church? Now, I'm going to be faster on some because some of these you know. And I'll show you how it works at the end. Number one, the elements of a missional church is a church in New York anyway. It means a church of people who like the city, talk the city up,

If we're going to be a church that can only get conservative traditional people and say to them, you know you need Jesus because you know you should be good, but you're not good enough, and Jesus will forgive you. That's the Christendom model.

If we're going to do that, you're going to find that those kinds of people also hate cities, by and large. And so if you want to be a kind of evangelical processing center, center, then you should just have a negative view of the city, and that's the kind of people you will attract. On the other hand, most of the rest of the world kind of like cities. They like the diversity of it. They like the excitement of it. An awful lot of people really like cities. And therefore, the first element in a missional church is that you love the city, and the church loves the city. The church talks the city up, enjoys it. Okay? Number one. Number two. Move on a little further. The second thing that has to happen in a missional church is you've got to speak the gospel to the concerns of the people. That's why I put it this way. The gospel has to retell the culture story. Now, what do I mean by that? Well, number one, the gospel, when you communicate with somebody, you have to enter into and find out what their concerns are and what their story is. Now, what do I mean by a story? Well, look at it this way. way. Think of it this way. If you ask a New Yorker, you know, what is it that you really are after? Evangelism Explosion and most of the other gospel presentations essentially assume that the person feels deep down inside, I really want to be a good person, a good father, a good mother, a good husband, a good wife, a good person. My in-laws and my parents, as different as they were and everywhere, that was their story. But if you ask a secular New Yorker, what are you after. They're not saying, I just want to be a good person. What they're really saying is, I want to be free. I want to be authentic. If you ask a traditional person, what is moral? They'll say, it's living according to your obligations to absolute moral standards. If you ask a secular person, what is moral? They're saying, liberating people, freeing people to be who they need to be. All I'm saying is, a Christian who wants to says something to both those kinds of people. Does it not? It speaks to both those kinds of people. But what we have to be doing is we have to be listening so well to the culture's story and the concerns of the culture and reading the same books and being immersed in the same issues so that we're able to show how the gospel and Jesus Christ always resolves the stories that any group of people, no matter who they are, has better than they can resolve them themselves. And that's all Number two. Number three. The third thing about a missional church is you've got to speak in the vernacular. Now, let me... I'm going to press this for about... I haven't... Let's see. Still got about seven minutes. I'm going to press this for three just to show you how important it is. Always, always, always, always, in a missional church, you expect to be overheard. I expect to have people, though I don't know where they are, I expect to have people in this room listening to me talk who are skeptical about Christianity. They might be a little surprised to hear some of the things I'm saying, but I think most of the things I'm saying are negative about the church. And that actually is probably something that a lot of skeptical people need to realize, and that is the church can be self-critical. Always, always, always expect to be overheard. Always speak in your small group. Always speak at your dinner table, at the restaurant. Always speak in the worship services, as if your whole urban community is there, not actually, there in the seats. Because actually, you don't know. But why? Here's the reason why. Number one, postmodern people try on Christianity through dozens of mini decisions. They want to see how it works. They will come in. They want to know. They want to see how you really live. You can't put on gospel presentations. You can't bring them to a program. Postmodern people want to come and see how you live and how the gospel works. They just need to be there with you. That's so critical to what makes Redeemer, Redeemer. Number two, you have to speak in the following ways so that church events can be places where you can just carry on your friendships with people who may not believe. In other words, every church event ought to be a place where you can carry on your regular friendship work with people who don't believe. leave. Otherwise, what Christians know instinctively, that they can't continue their friendships at church events because the church events would be confusing or offensive to their friends. Now, Redeemer doesn't completely, by any means, avoid this, but here are some ways in which you have to speak in the vernacular so that you can avoid, so we can avoid being a confusing, offensive place. Specifically, number one, look, keep in mind all these should flow from a gospel otherwise they're just spin. Number one, we have to avoid tribal language. We use simple, accessible language rather than stylized jargon. Have you ever realized that when you start to pray, I'll be real honest about this, when I listen to people pray around Redeemer, I'm sorry, I'm going to make you self-conscious. I can't tell you how often I walk away saying, I don't know where they learned to pray, but they didn't learn to pray that way here. You go into tribal language, stylized language, use all kinds of words that you never would use in regular talking. working. A non-Christian person or a spiritual pilgrim sits down and listens to that, and either is going to be offended, because very often the stylized Christian jargon you use in praying is very militaristic, by the way. Have you ever noticed that? Very militaristic. If they're not offended, they're just going to feel like, man, I don't know how to do this, so I'm not going to say a thing. We need to avoid tribal language, and I'm not even going to give you examples, because I'm afraid it's going to embarrass somebody, because you might have just said I heard you say it and I'm picking on you. Kathy wrote an article a couple years ago in the newsletter about it. She called it pious babble. Do you remember? Any of you remember it? Offended quite a few people, by the way. I said, this is the way I talk and this is the way I'm going to talk and because it makes me feel spiritual when I talk this way. Well, fine. It also makes people feel excluded. We avoid technical jargon, which means we don't use doctrinal biblical terms without explaining them in a very natural way. Not, oh, by the way, those of you who don't know, not like that. So first of all, you avoid tribal language. Secondly, you avoid technical language. Secondly, number two, we avoid we-them language. It is amazing how often you can talk about people who don't believe the gospel as if they're kind of a different species or making cynical statements about other religions or other kinds of Christianity. That should be out. It should be out if you understand the gospel, but the fact is you pick it up from other churches, and sometimes we do it too. But, well, number three, you avoid citing the Bible or making explanations with a tone, well, everybody intelligent knows this, but for those of you who don't, you constantly anticipate and address the concerns, the objections, the reservations of the skeptical spiritual pilgrims with the greatest respect and the greatest sympathy. If the gospel is affecting you, you will be deeply sympathetic with those who struggle to believe. If you're not sympathetic, by the way, you know Jude 22 says, them who doubt. It's a command. Don't freak out. That's very, very important. After a service last three or four months ago, you might be here, I'm sorry, you'll probably never come back. After service three or four months ago, a guy came up who'd been a Christian, come from the heartland, moved to the city, been here for three or four months and said he wasn't kind of a redeemer anymore because he heard redeemer people use foul language. And he was very, very happy and kind of left. And I pressed him a little bit. I said, define foul language. I said, you know, Anglo-Saxonisms for excrement, I'm not sure that's a sin. I mean, that's kind of weird. That's kind of New York, too. And maybe they're being insensitive. That might be a social sin to use those words and not think about how it affects people around you. But is that a sin, And how do we define that? Clearly, the guy just said, I can't handle it here. I mean, in other words, he was unwilling to work with people. I said, how do you know that just because the person comes to Redeemer, that this is a solid Christian person who should be aware of all these things? He says, well, I don't know. I mean, they come. They come every week. Here's somebody who just couldn't make the transition. I tried to talk about this, but didn't have the time. And I don't even have the time now. Now, look down here at number C. Attitudes and feelings. Middle class traditional people value privacy, safety, homogeneity, stability, sentimentality, space, order, and control. New Yorkers, the city, is filled with ironic, edgy, diverse people who do not value these things at all. You must be comfortable with that and appreciate them. And if you can't handle it, it's probably not because you're so much more mature and you're a Christian. It's because you come from another part of the country. and you recognize that you're just being culturally rigid at this point. There's also a special need to forge a healthy voice of Christian irony. New York is ironic. Evangelical Christendom Christianity is sentimental, incredibly sentimental. There is a form of irony that is wicked and bad because it's harsh, but there's another kind of irony that's humble. It's the kind of irony that's self-deprecating, that pokes fun at itself, not stuffy and not pompous, not manipulative. We avoid inspirational language as much as we possibly can, okay, because inspirational language is emotionally manipulative to some degree. All of these things are part of, very much part of what makes us a missional church. The rest of you are familiar with, because I have to finish. Number four, we're a missional church if we have a tremendous amount of emphasis on you need to be converted through Jesus, and Jesus will utterly change your life and a tremendous amount of emphasis working with the poor and social justice.

Churches that really talk about social justice are so low-key, they never talk about the fact that Jesus Christ can utterly change your life if you come to him and get converted. And churches that talk about conversion are very, very low-key about charity. charity. In Christendom, you don't need that kind of counterintuitive balance of word and deed for a church to grow. But in the city, we will have no credibility unless we do both, because we have to destroy the stereotypes. People want to put us in a liberal conservative category or somewhere along the continuum. No way will people listen to our message. No way we'll be a missional church unless we have that counterintuitive word deed ministry. talked about, Redeemer has got to find a way of not just having supportive fellowship, but having a way of showing that we use sex, money, and power differently in our community than is used out in the rest of New York. We're not very good at this, okay? But that's number five. Number six, we've got to show that we're not afraid of culture, but rather we encourage Christians to be involved in culture and produce culture and to be involved in the arts and be involved in government and be involved in all that. Again, you know this. We've talked about this as a cultural value. You see how this fits into being a missional church. Lastly, number seven, I'll read it to you. Global church kingdom consciousness.

Listen carefully to this one. You haven't heard much of this. Global church kingdom consciousness. consciousness. During Christendom, churches define themselves over against other churches. Okay? The Westminster Confession, which is the PCA's confession, is a distillation of Reformed Presbyterian theology, and it bashes Catholics an awful lot. If you read through the Confession, it really goes after the Catholics. Why? Because everybody was a Christian of some sort when they were writing that in the 17th century, and you can never define yourself As, here's what I am. Unless you say, and that's not this. There's no way to describe who you are without really telling who you really are. The only way confessions were fulfilled over a really long period of time is really telling where this really at least in the main. And it is incredibly important for a church like Redeemer to be as much as possible not bashing other churches and showing unity with other churches as much as we possibly can do with theological and confessional integrity at the local level. Turn over, and now I can show you my case study. What then is a missional home fellowship group? Now, what I mean by that is, how do you know your home fellowship group is ready to have in it and will have in it people who don't believe, people who are on a kind of spiritual pilgrimage who can come in? There is no better place to come to understand the gospel than a small group. It's even better than a worship service. You all know that. You're just friends in a small group and you talk and there's nobody sort of in charge pointing a finger like you pay me to do every Sunday morning, which is pretty hard for people. no better place to make the decisions and to work on, you know, your obstacles and to come into the faith than a small group. How can you make sure you have a small group that is missional, a place where that can happen? Look, it basically is not a matter of having evangelistic programs, that's fine. It's not basically a matter of being open. You know, some groups say we're looking for recruiting new members. Other groups say, no, we're closed. We can't take anymore. We're full. Cool. I'm not talking about either of those things. They're not the key to what makes you missional. If these six things are happening, which are based on the seven principles I just gave you. Number one, if the group's people love the city and it's evident in the way they talk. Number two, if the group, when it talks about the gospel, it links the themes to the culture stories, to the concerns of New Yorkers like freedom, exclusion, grace, and identity. New excluding people. They want to know, how can I embrace people of other races and cultures? New Yorkers are concerned about oppression. They're concerned about freedom. They're concerned about identity. If you, in your discussion, link the gospel themes to the culture stories because the people in that group know, know the concerns of the culture around. Number three, if its language, even and especially when praying, is not tribal, technical, or disdainful. Number four, if its actual practices inside the small group with regard to sex, money, and power are different from conservative or liberal conventions. Now, here's what I mean by that. Conservative churches are really big on sexual purity, and actually kind of, they're not down on materialism and racism. And liberal churches are really down on, you know, materialism and racism, and they don't give a damn about what's going on sexually. They really don't. And I use the term advisedly, but truly, because the real churches don't believe in damnation. And so what happens is, if your community, in its attitude towards sex, money, and power, is so counterintuitively different that not only the rest of New York, but also then what people consider conventional conservative or conventional liberal communities. Number five, if the small group's participant's conversation engages with the culture around it appreciatively, reading reviews of shows or new books and things like that, appreciatively, sympathetically, and yet challenges the cultural trends in a nuanced biblical way. And number six, if its members are non-sectarian, they are not bashing other Christians or talking down other churches are talking down on the religions. If you have those things and they're evident in your small group, non-Christian people, spiritual seekers, will be brought and if they're brought, they'll stay. If they're not, only Christians and conservative people will be welcome in the group. You see how that works? It's actually fairly simple and yet it's pretty hard because if your small group is filled with people who got their Christianity outside of New York, not going to be like that or they're going to violate some of these. And it's your job as a leader just to be sensitive and not to hit them over the head, but try to lead them in a good direction. That's the context in which we talk about how to share your faith, how to deal with objections to the Christian faith. Very, very important. We want to be a community that can be like that. Okay, now I'm going to close in prayer and then somebody, is one of the cell The cell director is going to come up and tell what to do next. Let me pray.

Our Father, I meant what I said, Lord, when I said Redeemer does this imperfectly.

And yet, we also realize that we're going against the grain in many ways. We're going against the habits that many of us have entrenched in our own hearts and lives from our experiences elsewhere. and of course we're certainly going against the grain even of New York City, which is a secular place. So we're always doing this imperfectly. I know plenty of people who, though they're spiritually seeking, couldn't handle a worship service at Redeemer. They'd be confused or offended. We pray, therefore, that we continually more and more learn to embody the gospel in a city of New York. We pray that our only offense would be the offense of the gospel and not the offense that comes from unwise, indiscreet, selfish, rigid, ethnocentric behavior and speech. And so we really pray that the only offense we would have is the offense of the gospel, which of course is very offensive and yet smacks people down and then lifts them up and heals them. So we pray that we'd just be good vehicles for that gospel. That's all we ask as a body and as individuals. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.
