The scripture reading is taken from 1 Samuel chapter 18 verses 3 through 4, chapter 19 verses 4 through 5, and chapter 20 verses 40 through 42, found on page 8 of your bulletin. Then Jonathan made a covenant with David, because he loved him as his own soul. And Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was on him and gave it to David, and his armor, and even his sword, and his bow, and his belt. And Jonathan spoke well of David to Saul his father, and said to him, Let not the king sin against his servant David, because he has not sinned against you, and because his deeds have brought good to you. For he took his life in his hand, and he struck down the Philistine, and the Lord worked a great salvation for all Israel. You saw it and rejoiced. Why then will you sin against innocent blood by killing David without cause? And Jonathan gave his weapons to his boy and said to him, to the city. And as soon as the boy had gone, David rose from beside the stone heap and fell on his face to the ground and bowed three times. And they kissed one another and wept with one another, David weeping the most. Then Jonathan said to David, go in peace because we have sworn both of us in the name of the Lord saying, the Lord shall be between me and you and between my offspring and your offspring forever. And he rose and departed and Jonathan went into the city. This is the word of the Lord. We're looking at the life of David. It's the longest narrative presentation of a single human life in all of ancient literature. There's lots of other great epics and sweeping accounts in ancient literature like the Iliad, but this focuses on one person to try to show us what makes or breaks a life. Tonight, we have one more thing that if we have it, makes our life. have it, it breaks our life, and that's friendship. Friendship. Let's notice four things about friendship. The importance, the parts, the power, and the possibility of friendship. According to this famous friendship, the friendship of David and Jonathan in 1 Samuel. Where are we in the story? Let's first talk about the importance of friendship. Saul has brought David to court after his great victory over Goliath. From chapter 18 to 20, however, Saul becomes murderously envious of David, of his success, of his popularity, and he tries to kill David six times. We talked about this last week. Three of them, the first three are more covert, then he gets more overt, and all during this time, this is the most dangerous time in David's life because he's living in the court. he's living with, in Saul's household, and every so often Saul will just go off in a rage, and he'll have one of these fits, and he'll try to kill David, and David is trying desperately to ride out the storm. He didn't want to become a permanent enemy of Saul. He was hoping that the king's fits and rages would go away, or pass over, or be healed, or something like that. Now, in this most awful, evil, dangerous time in David's life, which is chapters 18, 19, and 20, that at the top of Chapter 18, the beginning of this terrible episode, we have the friendship of David and Jonathan. And at the very end of the chapter, at the end of Chapter 20, at the end of this terrible time in David's life, we again have the friendship of David and Jonathan. We have the covenant making at the beginning, and we have the covenant renewal at the end. What is the narrator telling us? Eugene Peterson, who's a commentator on this passage, says this. It's a very, very poignant, I think, observation. He says, in short, during this most dangerous evil chapter in all of David's life, this deep friendship with Jonathan bracketed the evil. Now, that's quite an insight. Literally, of course, in the narrative, in the story, David's, the friendship with Jonathan is the bracket at the beginning and at the end. But what is Peterson saying? What are we learning? What we're learning is that the friendship with

contained the evil. It didn't just drown David. It made it containable. It made it bearable. It made it survivable. He never would have made it. Literally. He never would have survived without the friendship with Jonathan. Here's what this is saying. Maybe you haven't had six attempts on your life. The average New Yorker only has three.

But you're going to have troubles. You're going to have tragedies. You're going to have difficulties in your life. sync without friends. You will never make it through life without friends. Close friends. Friendship is what sustains your life. Friendship has a sustaining importance. You'll never make it without close friends. There's all kinds of studies about this. There's innumerable studies. I could pull them out. Innumerable studies that show that the more close friends you have, the better your health. The more close friends you have, the longer your life expectancy. And somebody says, what about marriage? Listen, I can tell you, as a married person, it's the friendship in your marriage that gets you through hard times. Not the romantic aspects. Not the erotic aspects. It's the friendship. It's friendship. You will never survive without friendship. You'll never make it through life. That's how important it is. Now, why would it be that important? Why would it have that kind of importance? Well, the Bible tells you. Go back to the beginning. Go back to Genesis 1 and 2. big cadence over and over again. God does something and it was good. God does something else and it was good. God does this and it was good. It was good. Then suddenly you get to Genesis 2.18 and strikingly you have the first malediction. Suddenly something is said, it's not good. It's very startling. It's good. It was good. It is not good. Well, what is not good? It's in paradise too. What is not good? And the answer is, God says it is not good for man to be alone. Now this is pretty startling because don't forget this first human being was in paradise. No sickness, no death, nothing wrong.

And he had a perfect relationship with God and yet paradise wasn't enough without deep loving human relationships. the need of that first human being for deep, loving human relationships was so great that he was lonely in the middle of the garden. Jonathan Edwards, in a sermon on envy, which I think I referenced last week, Edwards says the only possible reason that the first human being was lonely in the Garden of Eden, that paradise wasn't enough for that first human being, is that God made us to need others besides himself. In fact, Jonathan Edwards says God must be the least envious, least possessive person in the whole universe because he designed, he deliberately made us to need others besides himself. We need friends. We need deep, loving human relationships. Even paradise isn't something we can enjoy. Well, you say, that sounds like there was a flaw in the design model. I mean, if you put somebody in paradise and they're not happy, come on. Why does the first human being need people like that? Because he's made in the image of God. And in chapter 1 of Genesis, God says, let us make man in our own image. Let us? Who's God talking to? Let us make God in our own image. Pardon me, let us make man in our own image. and that is a reminder that the biblical God is a triune God, a trinity God and that is a reminder that Christianity unlike any other religion there's no other religion that believes in a trinity. Christianity unlike every other religion says that friendship is at the very essence of God. Friendship is the very heart of the universe. Before there was a universe, before there was anything, from all eternity there was an eternal friendship

persons infinitely, who infinitely and perfectly had love to and knowledge of and joy in one another. And the reason that the first human being had to have other human relationships, had to love others like himself, was because he was made in the image of God. Because he was like God. God is a friendship. God has friendship in his very heart. But that's why, that is why, that's in you, that's in your design. You will never live, be able to live life without very close friends. Before moving on, a warning and a comfort from this point. Okay, a warning and a comfort. The warning is this. This is New York. So listen, New York, in many ways, leads you to trample on relationships or just to neglect relationships in order to get up the ladder. The kind of hours it takes, the kind of competition. The other is here in New York, many, many people trample on relationships or just neglect relationships. So as they move up the ladder, they lose the respect of people. They lose intimacy with people. It won't work. And I'll tell you why. No matter how many homes you have, no matter how big they are, they're not the Garden of Eden. And even if you had the Garden of Eden, it won't be enough without friends. never ever sacrifice friendships or relationships for status and achievement and wealth that's the warning you cannot escape your design on the other hand here's the comfort are any of you feeling like wimpy weak little people because you're always feeling lonely and you're always needing people and you don't feel like you have enough friends if you feel like that it's because you like God. It's not a sign of your imperfection. It's a sign of your perfection. And if you don't need people, you're not like God. So if you're lonely and you feel like a wimp little weenie because you're lonely for people and you need people, don't be. Don't feel like that. You're like God. He made you like that. So there's the importance of friends. Secondly, we see in this great example of David and Jonathan, in this story of their friendship, constituent parts of friendship? And there's three. And if we go through these three, you'll be able to analyze your own relationships, and you'll also be able to build some good relationships. What are the constituent parts? Three things. Constancy,

transparency, and sympathy. The three parts of friendship. Constancy, transparency, Transparency and sympathy. Look, first of all, constancy, verse 2. Then Jonathan made a covenant with David. And at the very end, verse 42, it talks about the covenant meant vows of friendship, oaths of friendship, a covenant of friendship. Now what are we talking about? Let me do this by comparison and contrast.

In the business realm, there's what you call a consumer-vendor relationship. If you are a consumer or vendor, you have a relationship with... ...you are a consumer or user... ...you have a relationship with the vendor... ...as long as that vendor meets your needs... ...at an acceptable cost to you. The consumer or user relaxes with the vendor... ...as long as the vendor meets your needs... ...at an acceptable cost to you. and if you find another vendor who gives you better service or same service for better cost, you're under no obligation to stay with that first vendor. You go to the second vendor. That's the business relationship. That's the model of the marketplace. But a covenantal relationship is very different. Obviously, a user vendor relationship has no constancy to it. You're always changing. It's always changing depending on the circumstances. Your needs change. The costs change. But a covenant relationship is different because a covenant relationship is not a means to the end of fulfilling your individual needs. Rather, the covenant relationship is an end in itself. A covenant relationship is steady and constant in spite of the circumstances, whether your needs are being met or not. So now let's compare these two things. If you are a user, your individual needs and rights take precedent. And if you're not getting your needs met, you change to another vendor. But in a covenantal relationship, rights come after responsibility. In a covenantal relationship, your individual need is put below your responsibility for the relationship and the thriving of the other person. Your needs come second, the relationship and the other person comes first. First, but you know what that means.

Throughout all of history, there have always been user relationships and covenantal relationships. But previous to this last 50 years, in almost every other century, in almost every other culture, we've always had vendor relations, user relationships. You've always had businesses. But in most cultures, your user relationship, which is very changeable and you're out as soon as your needs aren't being met. Was confined to the literal business world. And all of the relationships. Family relationships. Neighbor relationships. Friend relationships. Were all covenantal. Where your needs. You didn't just get out. If your needs weren't being met. Because there was a commitment. To the relationship. There was a commitment. Your needs weren't as important. As the thriving of the other person. But everybody. All commentators. Sociologists. The philosophers. The reporters. Liberal. The conservative. absolutely remarkable has happened in the last 50 years or so in Western culture. The model of the marketplace, the model of the user relationship has spread out and actually become the basis for conducting all relationships. So that family relationships and friend relationships and civic relationships and religious relationships and friendship relationships are all done on a market basis. They're all done on a cost-benefit analysis. If I am getting my needs met, I'm happy to stay in this relationship. If I'm not, I'm out of here. But users aren't friends. And even though we're almost all being changed into the image of our culture, and our friendships and our marriages and our family relationships and our civic relationships, our friendships, are all more and more into user relationships instead of covenantal relationships, that when it comes right down to it, we still need, because of our design, we need friends. We need constancy. We need commitment. We need friends. Users are not friends. So, for example, users don't build friendships. They network. Now, I'm not saying networking is wrong. I just want you to see the difference between networking and building a friendship.

Users, when a user meets you and wants to strike up conversation relationship. Users categorize you. They see your race, your gender, how much money you make, your type, your profession. They size you up by category so they can treat you in the way that they think will get the response they need from you. They need you to do things. They need you to act in a certain way. They need you to cooperate. So a user sizes you up by category and treats you the way they think that you will respond in a way that they need. But a friend doesn't size you up by category, but wants to find what's unique about you. And a friend wants to find out your strengths and gifts and then just celebrates them and affirms them, doesn't use them. And a friend wants to find out your weaknesses and your flaws. And when the friend finds out the weaknesses of the flaw, gently corrects you because your friend wants you to thrive. A friend is not a user, a friend... Look at Jonathan, the minute he makes his covenant, the minute he commits himself in friendship to David, his individual needs immediately go into deficit... Immediately... He loses his rights of the kingship... Pretty bad... Because he's a friend of David, he loses the trust of his father... He gets the hostility of his father, and eventually we're going to see it actually leads to his death. But he was a friend.

He didn't say, my individual needs are being met. I am going to switch vendors. He was a friend. So friends are marked by constancy. Secondly, friends are marked by transparency. Now, what do I mean by that? Well, verse 1, which I didn't print, says they were one in spirit. And verse 2 says, he loved him as his own soul. Now, to be one in spirit means this. Friends are transparent with each other. That is, they open to let you see in. They open to let you see in. Users don't do that. Users, of course, are spinning. Users put up a front. Users put up a veneer. They have to control what you see. Because they're only in the relationship as long as it meets their needs. but friends open to let you see in. In four ways. Let me just mention four ways. First of all friends let you see open to let you see into their deepest feelings.

Friends open to let you come on in to see their deepest feelings. Notice these two strong men weeping and kissing. Men weeping and kissing. If you think that's unusual, you don't read your Bible. Because the Bible's filled with men weeping and kissing. You know, Acts chapter 20, when Paul is about to leave his friends in Ephesus to go up to Rome, what do you see? Men weeping and kissing. Now look, some cultures have more of a problem with this than other cultures. Some genders have more of a problem with this than other genders. But it doesn't matter. Friends open up to let you see into their deepest feelings. open up to let you see into their common life. Common life, mundane life. Eugene Peterson says, Friendship is a much underestimated aspect of spirituality. It's every bit as significant as prayer and fasting, as in the sacramental use of water in baptism and the use of bread and wine in communion. So friendship takes the common and turns it into something holy. Now that's lovely. You know what he's saying? He's not just saying that for a friend you don't have to dress up. He's not just saying that for a friend you don't have to put on your makeup. He's not just saying for a friend, if they're going to be over, you don't have to decorate and go out and spend money to sort of decorate your place. He's saying more than that. He's saying with friends, you must not dress up. You must not do all that. Because what makes friendship is you bring them into the mundane part of your life. Into the con part of your life. Friends take walks together. Friends eat takeout together. Friends think out loud sometimes about what just happened and don't have to wonder about whether they're saying just the right thing. See, friendship is something. You can't have friends unless you're willing to take time, bring them into your life, bring them into the mundaneness of your life. Friendship, like the sacraments, takes the common and makes it holy. way. Thirdly, friends open up not just to let you see into their deepest feelings and not to see just opens up just to get you into your common life. But thirdly, friends open up to let you see into their decisions. Into their decisions. Now here's a key test. There's an awful lot of users that look like friends because they're having fun with you. They're socializing with you. I mean, people want to do things together. And they want to go out together. They want to hang out together. They

A covenantal friendship relationship. They like to have fun with you. But when it comes to decisions. No one has the right. To tell them what to do. I have the right. They don't let you into their decisions. They don't let you be part of their decisions. That's a user. Because the Bible says. Friendship is like iron sharpening iron.

Wrestling together. Arguing together. Weeping together. Discussing together. Bringing your friends into your decisions before you've made them. Oh, users don't want that because my individual needs are more important than anything else. But friends are transparent. Friends let you see into their decisions. And last of all, friends let you see all the way into their flaws and weaknesses. Hebrews 3.13.

Exhort one another daily lest you be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin. What a verse. First of all, it's telling you that you have to have a group of people around you that are exhorting you about what? About the sins that deceive you. Think of that. In other words, the assumption is that the things that are most wrong with you, you can't see. The flaws that most dominate your life and are messing you up, you are the least aware of. And therefore, your only hope for growth is that you deputize some people. I give you a hunting license.

Tell me what's wrong with me. Show me what's wrong with me. Talk to me about what's wrong with me. And I'm not just going to say, I'm out of here. Because that's what users do, but not friends. I'm not going to get defensive. I'm not going to get very, very, very demolished. I'm not going to get incredibly mad. I'm going to make it safe for you to see into my flaws and talk to me about it. Friends are transparency. Transparency, okay? There's no friendship without constancy. There's no friendship without transparency. And last of all, there's no friendship without sympathy. Now, what do I mean by sympathy? You say, well, that means caring and tenderness. No, I already covered that. I'm thinking of sympathy literally. The word simpatico means common passion.

Similar pathos. Common passion. C.S. Lewis had a very famous statement about this in his book, Friendship, Four Loves. And in his chapter on friendship, he says this, the essence of friendship is the exclamation, you too? You too? He says friendship, see, constancy and transparency are things you can just work on. But sympathy, common passion, seeing the same thing, something really important to both of you, This is the last ingredient, the last part of friendship, but you can't just create this. You have to find this. You have to discover this. When you're talking to somebody who maybe you don't know, and they're telling you something that's really, really important to them, and you say, I've read all those books too, and they go, you have? Or you say, this happened to me too when I was at a certain age, and they say, it did? In other words, when suddenly a person who you don't really know talks about something to you that's really important to them and you find you share it, a common passion, then you have the possibility of friendship. If you pour on it, lots of constancy and lots of transparency. Do you see how to do it? Do you see how to mix up a friendship here? You find the sympathy and you put in a transparency and constancy and you've got a friendship. This is the reason why C.S. Lewis says at one place, That is why those pathetic people who simply want friends never make any. The very condition of having friends is that we should want something else besides friends. If someone asks you, do you see the same truth as me? And your honest answer is, I don't care about that. I just want you to be my friend. No real friendship can arise. There would be nothing for the friendship to be about. Those who have nothing to share can share nothing. who are going nowhere can have no fellow travelers. So there you have the three parts. You discover the sympathy. You discover the common passion. You pour on lots of constancy and lots of transparency, which in our culture is extremely difficult to do. You're not trained to do it. So that leads us to the third point. Where do you get the power to do this? Where do you get the power to be a friend like this? I know we all sit around saying, saying, I want somebody to be, you know, I want friends like this. But that's not fair. Come on. Let's ask ourselves the question, how can I be a friend like this, especially a friend like Jonathan? Now I want you to see what you have in Jonathan. You know, there's friends and then there's friends. And Jonathan was a life-changing friend. He was a life-transforming friend.

David was saved, protected from evil, and released to become who he was meant to be, king, all because of the friendship of Jonathan. But Jonathan, I said all friends put your needs second to the thriving of the other person. But boy, Jonathan took friendship to an amazing level. Jonathan, we talked about this a little bit last week, took off his robe, which meant in order to be friends to David, he gave up his right to the throne. own. And secondly, we're told that Jonathan took off his sword and gave it to David. And we said last week again, that in ancient times, when you handed someone your sword, hilt first, you were becoming radically vulnerable because they could do anything they wanted to you. You were saying, I will serve you. And you were saying to the death. And that is actually what happened to Jonathan. If you read the whole story, if you read the whole narrative of 1 Samuel, you'll see one of the most startling things is that because Jonathan was a covenantal person in his relationships, not a user, not a consumer, but he was covenantal, he died. You see, if, there's a couple things he could have done. One is he could have sided with his father against David, in which case David would have been killed and Jonathan would have been king and he would have been safe. The other thing that could have happened is that Jonathan could have sided completely with David against Saul and tried to have Saul killed or even just run away into the wilderness, become a fugitive with David, and wait for Saul's insane insanity to get over. I mean, Saul was going nuts. Saul, as a king, was doing all kinds of terribly suicidal things, and his political and military policies were nuts and so on. And Jonathan could have just abandoned his father and gone with David. but Jonathan was loyal both to his friend and his father because he was a covenantal person. He was loyal to his friend David. He was loyal to his father. He was a loyal friend and he was a loyal son. As a result, he got David away. He stuck with his father. In spite of all of his father's literally insane political and military maneuvers and policies. and eventually he stayed with his father in a suicidal military action on Mount Gilboa where Saul and Jonathan and both of his brothers were all killed.

You know, there's a place in the Old Testament, a place in Proverbs 27, 6, that says faithful are the wounds of a friend. Now, in the context, it's talking about criticism. And what it means is faithful are the wounds inflicted by a friend. But when you see Jonathan stripping himself of his royalty, stripping himself of his sword, becoming vulnerable, and eventually dying so that David could become king, so that David could be saved, so that David could be protected from evil. When you look at Jonathan, you say, oh my, faithful are the wounds endured by a friend. Not faithful are the wounds inflicted, but faithful are the wounds endured by a friend. That's wonderful, but I thought you were going to tell me where to get the power. I can't do that, you say. And you're right. I could never be a friend like Jonathan. But you have got a resource that Jonathan didn't have. Here's what Jonathan did not know, but that we do. Jesus.

Jesus Christ says in John 15, he says, I no longer call you servants, he says to his disciples, because a servant does not know his master's business. you friends for everything that I have learned from my father I've made known to you. And greater love has no one than this, that he lay down his life for his friends. David, Jonathan, think of Jesus. David was saved by the wounds of his friend Jonathan. David became king. David was released into his full potential through the wounds of his friend Jonathan. But what Jonathan didn't know, and David didn't know, but you and I know, that the Lord himself came into the world as the ultimate friend. He, of course, took off his robe and Jesus lost his throne. He, of course, took off his sword. He became vulnerable. He lost his divine invulnerability and died on the cross for our sins. And what does that mean?

Jesus stayed loyal both to God's eternal love and to God's eternal justice. and therefore died for us. And if David was changed and saved and released into his greatest potential through the wounds of Jonathan, how much more will you be if you trust in and embrace Jesus Christ, the greatest friend, the lover of our soul? Because think of this. What did we say a friend is? Transparency and constancy. Friends open and let you in. constancy. Friends never let you down. See, transparency and constancy. A friend always lets you in, never lets you down. Look at Jesus. Transparency. How open was Jesus to you? His arms weren't just stretched open. They were nailed open. That's how open Jesus was for you. And constancy. Look at Jesus in the garden. His friends were sleeping, going to sleep on him. his friends were running away on him. They were fleeing. They were denying him. They were betraying him. God says, you're either going to get hell or you're going to lose your friends. What did Jesus say? Then I'll take hell. There's constancy. If you see the transparency and the constancy of your greatest best friend, Jesus Christ, that will turn you into the same kind of friend, every bit as good a friend as Jonathan. His transparency enables you to be transparent. Do you see how much he loves you? Do you see that to the degree you know you've been saved by grace, not by works, to that degree you don't need to spin. You can be transparent. You don't have to hide. You don't have to make people think you're great. Because you know that in Christ you're loved by God. His transparency is the basis for your transparency. And then his constancy is the basis for your constancy. Look at what he's done for you. You're never, therefore, in deficit. You don't have to do your relationships on a cost-benefit analysis. You're never in deficit because you have God's love. So you don't have to look out and say, whoop, this relationship, I'm not getting my needs met. I'm out of here. You don't have to say, I don't want a relationship with this person. That person doesn't make me feel that much better about myself. His transparency and his constancy, his ultimate, his perfect friendship will turn you into the kind of friend you've always wanted. And when it turns you into the kind of friend you've always wanted and you move out into other relationships with that kind of gospel power, you'll turn other people into the kind of friend that you've wanted. Your level of transparency will evoke a level of transparency. Your level of constancy will evoke a level of constancy. Look at what Jesus has done for you and say in your heart, faithful are the wounds of a friend. And when you see that, his friendship makes you the kind of friend you've always longed for. And when you move out into relationships with that kind of power, you actually create in your relationships the kind of friends that you want. one last thing. Jonathan, here in the end, is telling David, you've got to go into hiding. You've got to go be a fugitive. And you know what's interesting about this? Jonathan and David never saw each other again. And maybe Jonathan had a premonition because he said, go in peace, for we have sworn friendship that the Lord will be between you and me forever. forever. What? Don't you realize? Jonathan Edwards said. We said that friendships have to have something in common. What if it's the Lord? Friendships have to have something, some common passion. What if it's the Lord? What can happen to those relationships? Jonathan Edwards, in his notebooks, wrote this one day. We should strive to lay God at the foundation of all our friendships and subordinate our love for each other to our love for God. For last forever. Death won't put an end to such friendship, nor can it put an end to friends' enjoyment of each other. In Christ, your friendships will last forever. And when Jonathan Edwards was dying of smallpox in Princeton, New Jersey, and he knew his wife wasn't going to make it, he called his daughter and he said, write this down. He said he wanted this to be for his wife. And here's what he said to his daughter. He said, give my kindest love to my dear wife and tell her that the uncommon union which so long has subsisted between us has been of such a nature as I trust is spiritual and therefore will continue forever.

In Christ, friendships are endless possibilities. Don't you see? At the essence of God is friendship. The universe was created through friends working, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. And you are destined to friendship with God with him. Comfort one another with these words. Let's pray. Father, we ask that you would, by revealing to us the power and love of our great friend Jesus Christ, turn us into the kind of life-changing, life-sustaining friends that we need. That's how we're going to produce them in the lives of others. By being the kind of friend you were to us, we will turn other people into the kind of friends we need. We ask that you would show us what this means so that we can practice it. Make us a community of people who build friendships. Help us not to use each other. Turn us from a aggregation of consumers into a community of friends. We pray in Jesus name, amen.
