Before I introduce Dr. Keller for this wonderful talk that he's got planned for us, I'm going to give you a little background on the subject on which we've asked him to speak. And it's based on the book which we'll be talking about. So let me just read this. Cities like New York City have always held a great attraction for the artist. Cities provide us with a concentration of other artists to work with and to be inspired by. They provide us with easy access to the resources we need to do our work. And they provide us with access to a potentially large audience or patron base for our work. But until recently, artists, even in large cities, were considered a small bohemian subculture that the general population might be intrigued by at best and repelled by at worst. Work was considered inspiring or challenging or subversive. Sometimes we directly or indirectly impacted the direction the rest of society went in, and sometimes the rest of society even noticed. But rarely were artists thought of as an economic force to be reckoned with, until recently. Technology has increasingly taken over the jobs that had been done by people, jobs like manufacturing, information management, and even the service industries. When was the last time you called a large business and a person answered the phone? The decrease in the need for this kind of workers, as well as the increase in access to higher education, has flooded the job market with well-trained, skilled workers who want more from life than a paycheck and a pension. As artists who are Christians know, using the creative gifts God has given each and every human in his image is a deeply fulfilling part of life. And more and more of the work and the working population are wanting to use those gifts both vocationally and in their everyday lives. As one writer pointed out, 20 years ago, you couldn't have sold a $6 Michael Graves-designed toilet brush like Target sells now. But everyone is interested in expressing their creativity now, as evidenced by the spate of home design and renovation TV shows, and by the reality shows like Project Runway and American Idol, where the average Joe can become a creative genius seemingly overnight. The selling of creativity and attracting the creative people who do it has become big business. There have been numerous books and reports written about this trend in recent years, but I want to give you an overview of the thinking by focusing on three in particular, And then Tim will also be talking about one or all of them as well. Last December, the Center for an Urban Future published a report called Creative New York, which examined the economic role of arts and culture in New York City. Some of the findings included, as of 2002, 8.1% of all people employed in the five boroughs were working in creative industries of advertising, film, and video, broadcasting, publishing, architecture, design, music, visual arts, and performing arts. 8.1% might not sound like much until you factor in the other industries that are represented in New York, like finance, government, tourism, education, medicine, law, transportation, and all of the service and manufacturing industries that support them. Also take into consideration that this 8.1% includes all five boroughs. Certainly it would be much higher if looking at Manhattan alone. The only larger creative workforce in the world is in London. 29% of the creative workforce is self-employed. Between 1998 through 2002, employment in New York City's creative industries grew 13.1%, whereas jobs overall, only under Mayor Bloomberg, the city has increasingly recognized the contribution of the creative industries to New York City's economy. In fact, the New York Department of Cultural Affairs has a larger budget than the National Endowment for the Arts. But the report states that the city still has a long way to go in confronting the most significant problems facing its creative workers, primarily the lack of affordable working and living space and the lack of access to health care and other benefits workers in other industries take for granted. If you're interested in reading the report, it's available in PDF free online at the Center for an Urban Futures website. A second resource in understanding this new trend in creative economy is the book A Whole New Mind by Daniel Pink. Pink believes that workers with creative skills have an economic advantage over those who are not using their creative abilities on the job. He uses the outsourcing trend as evidence of this. Workers overseas are now being utilized for jobs from manufacturing to legal research to software coding because the cost of these workers is so much less to American businesses than the cost of hiring local workers. Pink believes that for the modern American worker who might have once sought those jobs is now being outsourced to Asia, the American worker must be able to think creatively and solve problems. Pink, in fact, believes that we have left the information age and have entered what he calls the conceptual or creative age. And most of his book consists of challenges and exercises to encourage the typical worker to think more creatively. And finally, and perhaps most influentially, a New York Times bestseller called The Rise of the Creative Class is having major impact in urban development around the country. Author Richard Florida, who was at the time a Carnegie Mellon professor in economic development, analyzes what he calls the creative class and the factors that are important to them vocationally and in lifestyle. style. He wrote the book in response to his observation that his city, at the time, Pittsburgh, didn't seem to be able to keep creative workers there, despite the presence of many large educational institutions that were training them. The creatives were moving to cities like Seattle, Austin, and San Francisco, and even New York City. Cities these workers felt more vibrant, more creatively stimulating, more open-minded, and just more fun to live in. Because so many creative workers have flexibility in where they live due to technology or open markets, Florida says that cities who are not actively attracting creative workers risk losing them in large numbers. Florida considers 30% of the workforce to be part of his creative class, so cities certainly cannot afford to lose residents at this level. Where does Florida get his 30% statistic? Florida lumps a lot of people into his creative class, including software developers, entrepreneurs, educators, doctors, and lawyers. He writes that the key difference between the creative class and other classes lies in what they are primarily paid to do. Those in the working class and service class are primarily paid to execute according to plan, while those in the creative class are primarily paid to create and have considerably more autonomy and flexibility than the other two classes do. He does, within his creative class, identify a super creative core, which would be what we would ordinarily consider the creative workforce. So, if this group is truly nearly one-third of the population, it would make sense that cities would want to keep the ones they've got and attract new ones. Through observing what creative workers want from the city they live in, Florida suggests that if cities take steps to develop these kinds of amenities, they can potentially attract creative workers and revitalize their economies. And in fact, cities like Philadelphia and Tampa have begun urban revitalization plans based specifically on Florida's books and principles. So what does Florida say the creative class wants? He writes that creativity flourishes best in a unique kind of social environment, one that is stable enough to allow continuity of effort, yet diverse and broad-minded enough to nourish creativity in all its subversive forms. Florida says that creative people prefer old places and small neighborhood shops over shiny new suburban neighborhood and big box stores. We like variety, eccentricity, and originality in our surroundings. Creative people like a street scene, with outdoor cafes, clubs, and cultural attractions all within easy reach that will stimulate our own creativity. Creative people identify themselves by all of the things they do, not just by the one in which they earn the majority of their income. Creative people like to be around others who are accepting of differences and alternative lifestyles. Creative people like flexibility in our working style and schedule. We don't distinguish between our life and our work. Creative people don't like to be tied down geographically, vocationally, or relationally. Creative people... I'm just reading.

Creative people prefer weak relational ties over strong ones. Having numerous weak ties is more beneficial to the freelance nature of many of our careers, and it's time-consuming to develop the five to ten close, intimate relationships that most of the other classes on average maintain. Creative people tend to be self-focused and less involved in the communities around us than the other classes or than our parents' and grandparents' generations. Florida writes that creative people naively assume that if they take care of their own business, the rest of the world will take care of itself and continue to provide the environment they need to prosper. Ouch. Whether we agree with Florida on all these descriptions or not, it certainly is interesting to consider them from a Christian perspective. What does this mean for us as the church? Do we also see cultural shifts in this direction? Why should we even care if our role as Christians is, as Tim says, to re-Eden, Eden, E-D-E-N, God's kingdom, while we look forward How are we as creative workers who are Christians to think about and act upon this cultural shift? I am not going to try to answer these questions. However, I'm going to introduce Dr. Tim Keller. He was, I'd like to say, the founding pastor of Redeemer 15 years ago, and he's been our only pastor, and the only pastor Redeemer's ever had. Lucky for us. I just want to, and it says, insert personal testimony. I would like to take this moment to briefly say that I was privileged enough to be here at the very beginning of Redeemer, those 15 years ago. And I came as a dancer, and I was pretty much the lone dancer at the time, coming from a rather conservative, legalistic background that didn't really, I would say, encourage dance. They pretty much didn't know what it was about and how it could be integrated. in a Christian consensus or worldview. Miraculously and mercifully, I met Tim and Kathy, and I vividly remember the day that I sat in their living room and we discussed the whole concept of dance and being a Christian, and they strongly pushed me out there to dance in the church. So I was the first person to dance at Redeemer on Friendship Sunday, a few more things and then choreograph the comedy shows. So I owe so much to Tim and Kathy for their embracing the arts. I'm a product of that. Now, I'd like to say that because Redeemer's Arts and Music Ministries have begun to receive national and international attention within the Christian community, we now receive many inquiries from churches about how they can also start active church ministries in the arts and to artists such as all of us. One thing Luann always tells them is that they have to start with the senior pastor. If the pulpit is sending a message that the arts and culture are important, that the artists are beloved by God, and that the artists are doing important work for God's kingdom, then half the work of arts ministry is already done. Redeemer has been fortunate to have a pastor that has sent that message from the pulpit since day one and has made all the difference in what we've been able to do through the arts and for artists. Without further ado, I'd like to present the wonderful Dr. Tim Keller.

Yeah, Laura did, in the very early weeks of the church, dance a couple times in our worship services. And I'm just still amazed that nobody, that they still let me use the word Presbyterian in my name. Quite a few people decided I wasn't, we were not any more worthy of the name if you did that. But somehow we held on to it. The branders just didn't do anything to me. So, yeah. Yeah. The Richard Florida book, Rise of the Creative Class, is, you know, everybody, you know, it's funny, everybody criticizes it, everybody, and yet it's a big bestseller. And I think it's because it brings up an important question, which is what is the relationship of artists and the creative community to the broader community? Big question. And worth talking about, quite a bit worth talking about. So we're using the book and its thesis and the controversy about the book as an occasion to explore that subject tonight. And actually, Luanne, who wrote the overview that Laura just presented to you, had some questions at the very end. I'll divide them into three questions, and I think it's a great way of getting us to consider this issue. The first question was, is there some kind of shift? So is creative work being more valued in our culture now? Is there some kind of shift? Second question is, even if there is, are people like Richard Florida maybe giving the creative class too much credit? exaggerating the importance of it. After all, why aren't we making more money? And among other things. And the third question is, what does it mean for Christian artists and the church in general, if there is such a shift? In other words, is there a shift? How big is that shift? And what does it mean for the church? First of all, is there really a cultural shift going on? And there's some kind of cultural shift that is actually, I think, making creative work more high-profile and valuable. I'll tell you what it is. You know, here, I'm trying to, I want to say something that, and there's so much discussion about cultural trends and shifts, I hope that this is, I think this is something that is almost consensus. There was some kind of shift that happened in the late 20th century. Some people say we moved from modern to postmodern. Some people would say, no, it's not postmodern, it's hypermodern. We don't need to get into that. But there was some kind of shift, and here's what it was. Because what we can call the modern era, intellectually, was the time in which reason, especially scientific reason, was seen as, in a sense, the salvation of humankind. Reason was going to take us home. Reason and science was going to get us to the kind of world we really wanted. Don't ask me when the modern era started. because the modern era, well, I'll tell you what most people would say, is that there was a shift to the modern era from the older era, which would be the time in which most people in the world thought God and faith was the salvation of the human race. In the 18th century in Europe, the shift happened. The intelligentsia sort of looked to reason and science as the salvation because of the wars of religion between the Catholics and the Protestants. It happened later in America, probably in the last part of the 19th century, after the Civil War. happened because the Christian church in America could not agree that slavery was wrong. They couldn't go to the Bible and figure that out. And so there had to be a war. And actually after that, Christianity, I think, was seen, especially by the intelligentsia and the intellectual classes, as having failed. And as a result, they followed suit with Europe. And we move to the modern and to all the emphasis on reason. Technologically, the modern era was a time of mass production and uniformity. It was the big company, the huge corporation, centralization, mass production. Everybody read one or two newspapers. Everybody watched three networks, and it was massification. And the representative of the modern era was the scientist and the suburb. The scientist, because as we've said all along, the scientist represented the salvation. with reason and empirical investigation. We'd find out what's the best way societies were going to work. We'd solve our human problems. We'd deal with poverty and disease and war and racism and that sort of thing because we'd do it through a scientific method. The suburb was representative of the modern world because if you think about it, compared to the city and the small town, the suburb was rational. It was so nicely laid out. It was the first time you ever had a situation All the businesses were over there. All the cultural centers were over there. It was all nicely, it was very homogeneous, non chaotic compared to both the town and the city because the town and the city, the small town and the big city are actually much more like one another than they are like the suburb because they believe in mixed use. You've got businesses and you've got homes, you've got different kinds of homes, you have the rich and the poor relatively close to one another and that sort of thing. Then there was a change. There was a shift and the shift was, some people call it postmodern. Okay. Who cares? But it was something. All right? Let's call it postmodern.

Some people say it's a lack of imagination. You're the creative, aren't you? Come up with a better word. Because somebody says, for example, here's the automobile. Why don't we still call it the post carriage? You know, the post horse and buggy carriage. So what is it? It's just... Anyway, postmodern.

Intellectually started probably with the existentialists who started to say, you know, home, but it really came to a head intellectually. And most, many of you probably wouldn't imagine when you think of postmodernism, you might not even have even heard of this guy. But I think he really brings together why in the intellectual world reason is seen as having failed us. It's not just World War I and World War II. It's not just the fact that the world isn't really closer to, it hasn't ended poverty and it hasn't ended war and things don't seem that much better. I mean, medicine, everybody agrees on that. But almost in every other field, we're not really sure that science is really making things better. It seems like it's making it easier for us to kill each other. But basically, what happened, I think, is put together intellectually in a book by Alistair MacIntyre called After Virtue. It's not an easy book to read, but it's very important. What he says is very important, very. He says, basically, science and empirical investigation can never tell you, when it looks at a neighborhood or a human relationship or a human being or anything, it can never tell you what that human being or what that relationship is for. Because the question, what is a human being for, is a metaphysical question, not a physical question. Science can't answer it. But you see, if you start to ask the question, what is a good life or what is a good person, And here's his illustration. You may have heard me use it before. How do I know if this is a good watch? If you say, well, I tried to hammer a nail with it the other day, and it just failed miserably. The nail didn't go in, and the watch fell apart. It's a bad watch. And you say, well, you know, in other words, what's wrong with that? What's wrong with that is you don't know whether a watch is good or bad until you know what it's for. And then you judge whether it's good or bad by whether or not it's fulfilling its purpose. What is a human being for? Science can't answer that. Religion can't answer that. The big stories can answer that. Philosophy can answer that. That's a metaphysical question. Of course, people don't agree, but at least people have working answers. But if you say, no, we're going to be scientific, there's absolutely no way to ever, out of science and empirical investigation, ever, ever, ever, ever get an ought. You can never say how someone or how something ought to be. There's no basis for political action. There's no basis for moral action. at all. And at some point, like somewhere in the 80s or 90s or 70s, people sort of woke up and said, and what Alistair McIntyre tries to say in that book, After Virtue, is that the modern project has utterly failed. There's no way that just, you know, naked, universal, neutral, supposedly, human reason is ever going to, and science is ever going to get us to anything. And when people say we're being neutral and objective, that masks actual agendas that are not scientific. And this is the reason why Foucault and people like that came up with the idea, and I think to some degree it's right, that science is really now a way for the people in power to control the people who aren't. And that therefore, universal claims about anything are ways to control people. people. And now, in the late 20th century, the idea was that it was culturally valuable when people in power make statements about this is right or this is wrong. They're not scientific. They're metaphysical statements, and they're usually ways of keeping power, and therefore, we need to be subversive. We need to question those. We need to get behind them. We need to be willing to unmask those. That's called deconstruction. And now, suddenly, it's culturally more valuable to do that kind of deconstructive work in the postmodern era. Now, if that's intellectually what happened, along with that comes the technology of the computer and travel. And cohesive communities, people live together for a long time. Because of mobility, people move. They move all the time. And the computer has moved away from everything having to be mass-produced, everything being customized. So you don't just have three networks. You've got zillions of networks. And so there's fragmentation and individualism. Now, in the postmodern era, I said in the modern era, the representative figure was the scientist. The postmodern era, the representative figure is the artist. Why? Because first of all, artists question things. They've always been, you know, they've always tended to deconstruct. They've always tended to be subversive. That's what artists think they should do. And up until recently, frankly, nobody saw that as being culturally helpful. It was really just kind of irritating. You know, why do it? We know where we're going, but now we don't. And not only that, the artists tell stories. And as Alasdair MacIntyre says, you can't find meaning unless you're willing to ask the bigger questions, the metaphysical questions. And so away with reason to the intuition. And not only that, we would say that if we said the representative figure of maybe the modern world was the scientist, system represented the figure of the postmodern world as the artist. The representative figure, I mean the place of the modern was the suburb. Well the representative place of the postmodern is the city. You see the pre-modern, the era of faith, it was the little town and the rural. The modern was the suburb. The postmodern is the city because the city is chaotic. The city is diverse. The city is not homogeneous. The city is not rational. It really isn't. Very hard. very hard to impose a rational order on it, much easier in the suburbs. Now, having said that, it sounds like I'm saying, yeah, there's some kind of shift. And Richard Florida, the guy who wrote The Rise of the Creative Class, is right in saying, for example, there are more simple statistics, there are more people coming out of schools that want to go into the creative professions than there used to be, that there are cities doing everything they can to attract them, and there are, I mean, there's, I think, you know, people aren't criticizing Florida for this, he really says is that the cities that have high percentages of creative people, creative class, do better, you know, economically and financially. So there is some kind of shift going on. Second question. However, even if there is a shift, is it this big? See, what Richard Florida says is that he has a thing called the Bohemian Index. And the Bohemian Index is a way of telling whether or not your city is going to attract creative people and therefore do well economically. And there's several things in the Bohemian Index, but here are some of them. He says, creative people like places. Number one, they are highly tolerant rather than strict. Secondly, they are open to innovation and experimentation rather than putting a big stock in tradition. They value innovation and creativity rather than tradition. They value tolerance rather than being moral strictness. And lastly, they are highly diverse rather than being uniform, and so on. And therefore, what Richard Florida says, and people of his type of point of view is saying that it's traditional, and small towns in more traditional places is not where creatives want to be. They want to go to these innovative places, these tolerant places, these diverse places, and those are the places that you're going to have. Those are the economic engines. the cities that are going to do well, so attract these people. That is what gives you economic vitality and social vitality. Now, is he right? Is he exaggerating? Yes. And the only way to understand this is, let me take a moment here to put this in a broader context. Richard Florida is part of a pretty big debate that's actually been going on for quite a while, and he didn't create it. But what I'm going to do is I'm going to mention two figures, two sociologists that have best-selling books in the last few years that represent the two sides of this debate about what makes a vital society. And Richard Florida himself talks about the debate in a couple of places, and he rejects the other side, and he says this is the right side. But if you're really going to understand what's going on, actually today you need to understand. There's a guy named Robert Putnam, Harvard, who wrote a book called Bowling Alone, sociologist. And then along comes Richard Florida, who was at Carnegie Mellon, but now he's somewhere else, who writes The Rise of the Creative Class. And both of them put forth fairly different visions of what will solve society's ills and what will create a healthy society. Robert Putnam basically, in Bowling Alone, believes that the key to a healthy society is social capital. Now, he didn't invent the term social capital, but it's very important. What he means by social capital is non-consumerist relationships. Social capital means you do better, you'll be more successful, and your community will be better the more social capital there is. And that is the more networks of non-consumerist relationships you've got. Now, what's a consumerist relationship? What are we talking about? Well, a consumerist relationship is one in which I relate to you as long as you are helping me meet my goals at an acceptably low cost to me. I want to see you. I want to know you. I want to spend time with you to the degree that you are helping me reach my goals. And therefore, the relationship is a means to an end. It's a negotiable, right? It's a consumerist relationship. Social capital is based on the idea of what you might call covenantal relationships. about family relationships, extended family relationships. We're talking about neighborhood relationships, both informal and formal, like associations. We're talking about churches, synagogues, mosques, religious organizations. We're talking about voluntary associations and nonprofits and people that work with the needy and so forth. And in these relationships, the relationship is something of an end in itself. You stay with the person because, in other words, even when it's not very fulfilling, even when you're not necessarily getting your needs met, you sort of stick with them and you slug it out and you try to help them and you try to work on it because the relationship is not just a means to your individual happiness, it's an end in itself. Now what Robert Putnam says is, another way to put it besides social capital, is he says this is the essence of civil society. Civil society is a theory that says here you have government and here you have the marketplace. And the government and the marketplace are big humanizing. In some ways, you're just a cog. And they can't tell you stories about what life means. But it's at the level of what they call mediating institutions, civil society, which is families and religious institutions and churches and non-profits, where people tell each other stories about what is life about. See, they're moral communities, small moral communities. And those are the places where you feel like not a cog in the machine but a person. Those are places where there's lots of social capital, where people sort of lift you up and pick you up and don't immediately necessarily value you only on the basis of what you can do for them, which is how it works in the marketplace and even to a great degree in government. And so what Robert Putnam says, if you've got a community filled with social capital, lots of social capital, lots of these media institutions, two things. First of all, people are happier. They have more meaning in life because that's where you get your meaning in life. And secondly, your society, your community is stronger because your neighborhoods are stronger. Your schools are better. You know, your parks are better. I mean, everything's better because everybody is not just thinking of themselves, but they're, you know, working for the common good. Sounds great, right? However, Richard Florida is probably right in saying, now Richard Florida actually says, Robert Putnam, I respect him. just won't work. And here's why. The critics of Robert Putnam point out that the communities filled with social capital are places that are also filled with traditionalism, self-righteousness, bigotry, racism. They're traditional communities. Traditional communities where people stay put and they don't move. And they're not as mobile. And people are part of extended families. And people remember you because you grew up there and you went to high school. Now you live in the town and you live and your kids go to the same high school that you went to and that sort of thing. And an awful lot of the - Richard Fata points out, why is it that so many of the most creative and talented people in the world don't want anything to do with those places? They leave those places. Why? Because they all - as great as the social capital is, first of all, they're not places of innovation. They're places of tradition. and if you're different, you're looked down on. And it's hard for new people to even get in there because it takes a long time, but you're an outsider for a long time. They're not places of innovation. They're not places of creativity. They tend to be racist. They tend to be exclusive. Who wants to be there? So Richard Farda comes up and says, that's not my idea of a good place. And besides that, the places that actually rank high They measure high on Robert Putnam's social capital, are not New York City, and they're not either Bismarck, North Dakota, and places like that. They're also not great economic engines. They're not places where there's tremendous economic vibrancy. So he says, no, what you really want is you want places of innovation where people are quasi-anonymous. Why do creative people and the talented people want to be quasi-anonymous? They want to work in places where not all the neighbors know one another. And I'm not all involved in all these networks of deep social capital. Why? A number of reasons. One is, and actually, you know, you heard about it. One is, it takes a great deal of time away from your work to develop social capital. And creative types don't really live in their neighborhoods. They don't even live in their cities. They live in their work. work. Secondly, social capital always puts certain limits on you because you are accountable to people about your moves, accountable to people about the things you do. You've got to answer to people. And if you want to be subversive and if you want to be creative, it would be better for you to, you know, not have too many people to answer to, to be able to do what you want to do. So it's not good for work because it takes time away from work. It's not good for innovation and I guess you can even go a little further and say that honestly creativity happens when you're in a lot of different places, you're meeting a lot of different people and you're in a lot of different settings and you're in a lot of different clusters and if you're always the same people, always in the same routines and all that, you actually don't think new thoughts. So Richard Flaherty says creativity is the economic engine and therefore we really don't want places of high social capital, we want places of creativity, of quasi-anonymity, of high tolerance, of people letting one another alone That's why you go to New York City. Because you don't know your neighbors in New York City. At least not too much, not too well. And you don't have that sort of thing. You don't have to answer to people. All right. Now, who's right? Class.

You know, whenever you have one of these, these debates have been going on now for several decades. And it's very, very clear that, first of all, one of these groups is not supplanting the others. Listen. Richard Florida himself says there are really two countries right now. He says, one is creative and diverse, a cosmopolitan admixture of high-tech people, bohemians, the media, and the professions. The other is a more close-knit, church-based, older civic society of working people and rural dwellers. And a much more provocative way of putting this, Michael Wolff, who writes for Vanity Fair, said this. He says, there's a fundamental schism in American cultural, political, and economic life. By the way, there's two kinds of people in the world, people who say schism and people who say schism.

You know the kind I am. in American cultural, political, and economic life, there's a quicker-growing, economically vibrant, morally relativist, urban-oriented, culturally adventuresome, sexually polymorphous, and ethnically diverse nation. And then there's the small-town, nuclear-family, religious-oriented, white-centric other America with its diminishing cultural and economic force. Two nations. But, of course, he wrote that about seven years ago, and I think it's pretty hard to say that the places filled with social capital are necessarily, economically they're not as vibrant, but they're still there. So who's right? Which of those is a healthier society? Huh? Class? Now, it's interesting. Richard Florida twice, especially in his great book, Rise, it's a great book. It tells you a lot. Rise of the Creative Class. There's two places where he gets off his message a bit. And he actually says that there are lots of the creative people that he has been interviewing that have had it with Manhattan, San Francisco, and Silicon Valley, but never in a the world do they want to go back to Bismarck, North Dakota, but they also hate the suburbs, and they're going crazy. Now, why? Because first of all, and this is what Richard Florida actually says, he says, and it's surprising that he's willing to say this, he says, basically, if you go to these creative downtowns, these places that are economically so vibrant, and you know, everybody wants to move there, he says, there's a tremendous amount of pathology in the creative class. He says, they are excessively individualistic people, uninterested in virtually anything outside their own lives. When you read that and you say, is this the guy that wrote all the rest of the 400 pages of the book? What's he talking about? And what he's actually saying is that when artists get into a community, they're really not usually part of the community. They're busy, and they like what's going on around, but they don't actually get to become part of the community. In fact, it's not just artists. It's young professionals who want to live in these cool places. And what you actually have in New York City, for example, is here in Manhattan and a lot of the other professional enclaves, you've got very low social capital but great places. They are tolerant. See, one of the great things about the creative class places is if you're different in a small town, if you're different or weird in any way, you go out to those social capital places and they just beat you up. so in a way it's tolerant here and people come here some people almost have to survive because they're so different they're not part of the uniform they don't know how to wear a uniform and yet New York City would actually fall apart if it wasn't for the high social capital working class and immigrant enclaves you know about that you go to the Polish enclave in Greenpoint you go to the Greek enclave and Astoria, they're the ones closest to me so I know about them you go to the older ethnic communities who don't run the corporations, but who basically still, you know, the older Italian and Irish enclaves, that still give you the firemen and the policemen. And I did a 9-11 ground zero memorial service for the families of the people who lost loved ones. And they were all, you know, policemen and firemen and people who worked for the Port Authority. And it was fascinating. And they all talked like Rocky.

You know, the mothers and the fathers. It was sad. And also, you said, gosh, you know, wow. And by the way, you go to these Polish enclaves and these Italian enclaves and all that, they are racist. Right? And it's even true, though, of the black and Hispanic enclaves. They don't like the outsiders. But there's high social capital. New York City would fall apart if it wasn't for the places in here that have high social capital and low creativity. And they tend to be exclusive and they tend to be self-righteous and they tend to be suspicious of outsiders. And the high creative enclaves, which lousy social capital, and which in the end do get kind of hard to live in. And that's the reason why Richard Florida finds people unhappy with all the options. How do Christians respond to this? We've got a theological reason. We have a theological way to understand what the problem is. Abraham Kuyper, a Dutch Calvinistic philosopher and theologian, is very helpful on this. He says the way Christians always do cultural analysis is any non-Christian, any worldly philosophy or school of thought always tends to take some good thing and turn it into an ultimate thing, make it into an idol, make it into a magic bullet. That's right. And so what happens is some people are making an idol out of personal freedom, absolute, total personal freedom and creativity. productivity, and other people, the traditionalists, make an idol out of family and traditional values and moral rectitude. Now, which of those is right? The Bible actually has a story about those two people. Do you know that? About the creatives and the social capital people and the creatives? It's called the parable of the prodigal son. A man had two sons. One was a bohemian, one was bourgeois.

One said, I want to get out of here. Give me some money so I can go and I live the way I want to live and I can't live that way. The other one, the elder brother, had incredible social capital, stayed right home, you know, but was a Pharisee. Both of them were lost, if you know how the story goes. The father has to go out to both of them. Jesus is criticizing both of them. Interestingly enough, for you all, in the end, the bohemian is actually saved and the bourgeois lost. And the reason is, I think, because both of them were trying to be their own saviors and lords. are trying to be their own gods. But usually it's harder for the bourgeois, the traditional person to see that they're really missing the gospel. And I always have thought that the bohemian understands where they are. They're more self-reflective. They tend to look inside themselves. I mean, you know, the younger brother who went off, the bohemian, he ruined his life because of his insistence on absolute personal freedom. But on the other hand, there was much more self-knowledge there. And the bourgeois didn't have the self-knowledge. And in the end, really rake up, but I don't think actually Jesus is really favoring the artist. I'm just doing this because you're here. He's trying to say both kinds of people make an idol out of things. And therefore, now, what does this mean? Let's get practical. If I was in government, as a Christian, if I was in government, if I was in politics, I was trying to design a city, it wouldn't be, in some ways, New York isn't bad because it is a patchwork of these different communities. And if you really think one kind of community is really the way you're going to have a vital society, you're just nuts. Because both of them are pathological. Both of them are sinful at their heart. Both of them have idols at the heart. And they're always going to be going off in that direction. If you throw all of your eggs in the basket of one of these, you know, approaches to sociology, you're really going to hurt your city. You read the book by, or some of you heard the book by David Brooks called Bobo's in Paradise. A bobo is a bourgeois bohemian. and what David Brooks says is that right now the moneyed class in this country has actually taken the worst of both worlds and merged them and the typical upper middle class successful person living generally in the suburbs around the big cities especially the northeast is a bobo which is they've taken the worst thing they've taken the moral relativism of bohemianism and they've merged it with the materialism of the bourgeois. So they've taken the worst of both worlds and brought them together. I suggest that as Christians, we're supposed to take the best of those two worlds and bring them together. Now, how do you do that? Number one, I do think it's great for Christians, especially creative people, to make the sacrifices necessary to live in a place like New York City. Now, the reason New York City, if you're here, some of you are here for two weeks, If one of you is here for a day, I don't know. Look, I want you to put up with it. Here's the reason why. This isn't just for artists. When you go to a big city, there's two things that you meet that just bring the best out in you. One is there's nowhere else you're going to find so many people like you. In your small town, you might have been the best singer in town. You get here and you realize the people singing for money in the subway are better than you, you and you go home and you immediately go home and you start to take your lessons. So on the one hand the fact is that there are so many people like you, more people like you here than you are ever going to find anywhere else, except maybe London evidently.

And first of all that drives you to excellence. But secondly there are more people unlike you than you will ever find anywhere else. You are going to find people who think so differently, who do things so differently than you would have in the smaller town. And that makes you think of new thoughts. like you and more people unlike you here will create an environment in which what you are capable of is more likely to be brought out. It'll make you reach down and pull it out and do your best. And if you're able to live in a place like this with all of its difficulty, with its low social capital and its high cost of things, you will find to a great degree your own creative abilities and gifts are drawn out. However, what do you do about the low social a Christian community, one that does not mirror the broader culture. A Christian community in which people, and it's very easy when you come to a town like New York to say, I don't even know how long I'm going to be here. So you jump around to different churches, you don't join, you're not in groups, and especially you mirror the artistic community around you by not really becoming friends with non-artists. See, in the Christian community, as Catherine knows, if we get our services group of people together, it's this big or maybe even bigger. And you can say, how can we make sure that artists and the creative types get to know the educators and get to know the people in public service and get to know the people in the financial services together as a Christian community of people who really are together. They're really developing non-consumerist relationships with each other. The rest of Manhattan isn't doing that. All kinds of things When you as artists go through tough times emotionally, when you as artists go through tough times financially, if you've got the social capital within the Christian community, very often people will get you through it that otherwise you wouldn't be able to get through. If you're just part of the normal artistic community here with such low social capital, artists tend because of it. Listen, just like everybody tends to despise people who are different, everybody, without the gospel humbling you and also building you up, you're always going to try to justify your existence by looking down at other people. Artists are as good as that at anybody I know. And artists who aren't Christians in this city will use people in the business world just to get money. It's consumerist relationships, but not have real relationships with them. You could have the best of both worlds. You can have a city that will stimulate your creativity and yet at the same time have a Christian counterculture, a moral community, community, a community filled with social capital. We're not very good at it. The Christian community in many ways is very new and growing very rapidly. And there's still a lot of turnover. People aren't here a long time. So it's harder to do. But we could do it. And not just within artistic fellowships, but across. See, because we're all Christians here, you could have relationships across these vocational barriers that most people aren't having. You know, I mean, in this city, generally, apart from Christianity, you hang out with your own type. You hang out with your own kind. Christianity can bring you together across the races. It can bring you together across the vocations. That can give you a social capital that will enable you to stay here longer and be more productive. So there's really a possibility of becoming the anti-Bobos. I don't know what we're going to call ourselves. But combine the best of the bourgeois and the bohemian worlds through Christ rather than combining the worst. And so there's my idea. There's some thoughts. Now you're going to put on the Q&A. Hi. As an artist, if you know Abraham Maslow's hierarchy of needs, you got food, clothing, shelter, safety, and then there's something way up there called self-actualization. And there's this whole myth. Is it a myth? The starving artist willing to forego the food, clothing, and shelter for that height, that epitome of self-actualization. Have you found anything in these recent developments of this Richard Florida that kind of attests to that artist, that starving artist relationship with the economy, where the artists are the starving ones going for the top, surpassing the rest of society, living at a substandard level, hitting that high-low, even in psychology and medical science, the high-low phenomenon you see. and psychiatric wards, how does that tie into economics and survival? Well, actually, no. This is an easy question to answer. Because Richard Florida says is that the creative types move into an area and make it hip.

Okay? Sometimes they make it hip just simply by the way in which they physically alter the landscape somewhat. Sometimes they make it hip because in spite of the fact that they may not have a lot of money, than the poor people who lived there before them. And therefore they are able to be a market for some new stores. And so what happens is they say basically a 10 to 15 year cycle in which artists move into a poor neighborhood. They make it hip. That attracts other non-artists who do make more money and raise the cost of things so the artists can't afford to live there and on it goes. Nobody knows really what to do about it. Everybody's talking about it. The Center for an Urban Future to that had a really, really great report on Creative New York has no idea what to do about it. They even said there's enormous pressure because of real estate costs on not just artists, by the way, but churches and nonprofits of any sort who can't pay the price of a business, can't pay the rents that businesses can pay, or people in the corporate side. So nobody seems to know what to do about it. Richard Flaherty says that all he does know is that if a city gets so expensive that it pushes its creative class out, it'll actually sort of, he thinks what it'll do is start to kill the goose that laid the golden egg. So what you actually have to have is always some place in the city still cheap enough for artists to live and kind of move it around. I don't know what you do when they're all done. But he says it's a problem. And I certainly don't have an answer for it. You know what? Excuse me. My answer for it is that I know that if you are in a Christian network of high social capital, not just with artists but all kinds of people, that stuff bubbles up. Ideas bubble up. You know, two artists and three other families go together, buy a house together, turn it into a co-op and, you know, live much cheaper. Otherwise, you would be getting, you know, you wouldn't be able to stay in the neighborhood. Things like that happen. Rather than looking to government or some kind of grand plan, look to Christian social capital to find creative ways for Christians to sort of stay diverse together and stay in neighborhoods together. It's possible. Go ahead. I'm sorry. Tim, what advice do you have for those artists among us who might be new to Christianity and who want to talk about their faith, both in their artwork and in their conversations with non-Christian friends? Let me give you a couple of thoughts. be very reticent and humble and sparing in what you say to other people directly about your faith. Many Christians think that a Christian artist has to be talking about Christ

or depicting Christ in their art. Otherwise, you're not a Christian artist. But a better way to do it, actually, is to look at the world as a Christian in your art. So, in other words, instead of always having to talk about Jesus, put Jesus on like spectacles and look at the world as a Christian. And if your art is good enough, and it will then be elusive, not illusive, I mean A-L-L-U-S-I-V-E, it'll allude to your Christianity, or it will root some very, very intriguing artistic notions that are very attractive in Christianity. And if people respect you enough as an artist, they'll put up with your faith. absolutely will. So be reticent about talking directly and also don't feel like you've got to necessarily be overt in your Christian expression and your art, but rather let your Christianity inform your art and let your art be really, really good. And then I think opportunities for talking about your faith will come. Yeah. Hello to him. My name is Mark, for those of you that wanted to know. And my physique sort of rules out my ability to claim to be a starving artist. Or a dancer, really. But I know several artists that are starving, and they would love to have relationships with financiers. But how do we start that dialogue? What does it look like? And how do you keep it from being, hey, you've got the money, I need it. That's consumerist. That's exactly right. Then you're just like all the other artists in the city when you do it like that. I actually think you don't, I mean, I don't know how to do that. Well, first of all, I don't think this is a place to say, our churches here tend to participate in the transience and the thinness of relationships of the whole rest of, not the whole city, but I mean of the central city. We're busy. Our jobs are forcing us to do that. If you're an artist, you may have three jobs. If you're working, you know, if you're supposedly making good money, it's because you're working 100 hours a week, and they're making you work 100 hours a week. All this thins out the relationships. And what you really, that's what I was actually trying to say, our brother over here, is in some ways you don't have to have a plan. The relationships, if we can thicken the relationships, if you dive into church not as an artist but just as a Christian and begin to participate in the various ministries of the church and get into small groups and that sort of thing, an awful lot of these things will take care of themselves. I really think that's true. If you're too instrumental, how do I get to know a financier? going to work. It's like, you know, it's one of those things. What we're talking about here is a byproduct of not wanting it, but wanting something else. And that is simply to be a faithful Christian brother or sister to the other Christians in the city. I think all of the fruit that will come to artists, in a way, you can't try to go for directly because it's just selfish. So I think we have to thicken our relationships inside the church. The church itself, I was a pastor. Actually, those of us in leadership in the church are always feeling like evangelism is easier in the city and discipleship and community building is harder than it was in the suburbs. It's always easy to find new people. Everybody's in turmoil. People come in and they say, I need something, I need something. No, of course not. You live in New York. Of course you need something. If they're making lots of money, they're burnt out and they don't like it. I'm making money, but I don't like what I'm doing. And if you like what you're doing, you're not making any money. Everybody, and there's turmoil, and people are very spiritually open to begin to move toward Christ or to embrace Christ. But then to kind of keep us all still to work on the relationships and stay put and deepen our discipleship and deepen our holiness individually and corporately, very hard. Everything in the city is working against it. So we actually have to work on that. And I think, and if you as artists are part of that, I really do think those relationships will come. just mean somebody in your Bible study will fund one of your projects. But in some case, it might. But I mean, it happens not when you're trying to make it happen. If you try to make it happen, it may happen, but it won't be good for you or them. So I just think we have to thicken the church in general. Yes, sir. Good evening. Brendan Dawson. Hi. Comment and question. Whenever I hear the word class, for example, creative class, I think of power and economics, which I'm not against. But just for clarification, the gentleman talks about the rise of the creative class, and that would be a wonderful thing if we're talking about the rise of a creative body of people who have power and who have influence. However, you know, I challenge that because, for example, with all respect to the president, I think his election shows that if there is a growing creative class, I think the last election and the numbers show that class may not be a power base in our country. So my thinking is that, similar to what the gentleman said before, Maslow's Law, that maybe myself as an artist, and please give comment, I've had to challenge myself to change my image of what I can be. I've had to find models of artists who were wealthy because for so long, my values as an artist destroyed my attainment and my reaching for wealth. So I look like Tabano. He's a wealthy man, but he's a creative. powerful rock band, but he's a creative artist who also has a strong political influence and power base. Jay-Z, I do hip-hop. He's a great artist within his genre, but he's also a wealthy man. So how do you, is it reshaping our image of what an artist can be or a creative person can be? And is there a two creative class of people of power and influence who are artists in America? Thanks. Listen, I'm not defending Richard Florida. Actually, the very first page, he says everybody hates the word class. So he gets a lot of flack for it. And I almost think he used it because it sounded good. And I don't think anybody knows quite what it is. Because if you mean classification or category as a kind of heuristic device, of course. But I think you're right in saying that he posits too much power to the creative, more power to the creative class than they've really got. And actually, I think that's right. So I agree with you, and I don't hold a brief for him. So I think you're right about that. The reason I ask is because, for example, I read a book, Think and Grow Rich by Napoleon Hill. Now, that's a book that's designed to create wealth using your thoughts, too. And it's a whole number of things in there. But do we have the ability as Christians, understanding the values of the kingdom as expressed in the Beatitudes, have the ability to also reach for wealth in order to have the influence to work for good? Okay, let me just say one thing. I think that's a great question. It's a leading question. But I think you're right. for Urban Future, they made a list of five problems that artists had in the city. Want to know what they are? Especially those of you who are new. So yeah, tell me what I'm up against. And what you're talking about is actually one of the problems. The first is cost of space and real estate. And it's a problem, like I just said, for not just artists, but for people in the helping professions like teachers. In other words, it's not just simply for the creative types, but it's It's a problem, and people in the ministry and so on. Cost of space. Secondly, access to markets. They say the problem is that the competition here pushes down your fees and values. For example, there's so many bands here trying to play so many clubs that the clubs can virtually pay you nothing, or sometimes not virtually pay you nothing, pay you nothing. Whereas if you were in some other town and you play, you have less visibility. responsibility, but you come here and you can't get in because of the glut of people in the competition. Thirdly, market forces. Investors no longer have time to nurture artists or let them grow and fail on their way up. They want payoff immediately. Even I know a little bit about this because I've decided I've got to start writing. I'm going to try to write books, and I've come to find out that publishers and editors do not have the leeway. They're under so much pressure to produce, they really aren't there to help you try to get your book out. that's good. They just want you to get the book out, see the ones that fail, get rid of them, ones that sell, and keep them. So nobody's really working with the artist anymore because they want you to fail quickly so you don't cost them a lot of money, or they won't give you any chance to fail because the investors are under such pressure. Fourth, because of the market situation, artists should have business skills and acumen. Most artists either have no training or are by the very idea that what they're doing is a business. I think they spent a page in there saying that there has to be cross-pollination between entrepreneurs and people in the financial world and people with business background degrees and artists because the artists, by the way, even I know this, ministers, we get no training in that. We just get training in theology and how to preach. Then we're running an organization and you need to know all sorts of things about finance in the business world. I don't know a thing and you're in the same boat. way, one of the places where social capital inside the church could really come in handy. And then lastly, no safety net. Because your work is so project-oriented, almost nobody has steady work, and therefore you have stretches where you have little or no income, and some people can't stay in the city, and you have no insurance. And that is another place, again, where the social capital of lots and lots of very close Christian friends and non-consumerist relationships can very often help artists through emotional and financial hard times. But anyway, the idea that you really ought to know more about the business world, and you've got a whole slew of people who actually have, there's a lot more of the business acumen that people would certainly be willing to share with you than money, actually. And you might need it more than money. So, okay, over here. I'm Tim Lash. You said you were answering questions personally, so I'm going to ask one.

Which bow are you? find yourself personally, professionally, in terms of bonus, creativity, and have you always been that way? You know, yeah. Oh, I'm straight. I'm straight. I'm a bourgeois that's in a black shirt.

It's coming to the lambs. Will you want me to wear a tie?

but, but, but, but I think as those of you who know me for a long time is that we're because I'm a speaker and a writer I actually understand a lot about the creative process and it's different, because every art's different, so I mean, in other words, I'm from a, I don't think I've got the bohemian spirit, but I certainly understand it pretty well that's all, because of that, every single week, every seven days, I've got to write a sermon. I could approach it, like some ministers do, as basically information transfer, in which case I would only be a teacher and a not very interesting teacher. But it's even teachers, I think, realize that it's not just information transfer. They've got to capture people's imaginations. And when you do that, you're getting over there into that, how do you get people's imagination? How do you give them illumination? How do you make them see something they didn't see before? I'm starting to get there. So I have some understanding of that, especially in the, and because I have to get up in front of people, some of you are not performance artists in a sense, I understand that too. So does that help? And over the years, I think I've had a pretty good affinity for it. And Laura even gave a testimony that Kathy and I, we're pretty straight-laced people, have understood the importance of the creatives, even though we're really not exactly of that ilk. Okay? So you got personal, okay?

Yeah, hi. My question is about, it's basically the difference between consumer versus covenantal relationships. Yeah, yeah. And it seems like you were trying to say that joining a diverse small group Well, like a... Good step. That's all. Yeah, it would be a good step towards covenantial relationships. Yeah. But then the results you were talking about was saying that by being in one of these small groups, it would make your art better. You'd be... Well, I think it means you need the social capital. And I don't think if you only get your social capital amongst other artists, I don't think that's... Actually, it's not enough social capital. The idea of social capital is that you know people out... You know a lot of people. People who grow up in a town, as for all the problems of growing up in the same place, I had a church in a place called Hopewell, Virginia, which only 5% of the graduates of Hopewell High School go on and get a college degree. And almost everybody I knew there, when I started, I went to that church 31 years ago, and almost everybody that was in that church that hasn't died is still there. And we go back there. It's my biggest stash of friends. If you lose your job, you don't think of going anywhere. You just stick around until you can find something to do. And their social capital is astounding. And they're not all alike. That's the other interesting thing. The people there in a town like that, the bankers do know the town drunk. They do. Because very often they went to school together a long time ago. And see, that just doesn't happen here. I'm trying to say that a Christian community, even in a city, can approximate that to some degree. You could be a small town in a big city, which would be the ideal. That's what I mean by saying you could combine the two to a degree. And so it means if you only hang out with artists, then you're completely conformed to the image of the city in which everybody sort of sticks together. And you only go out in order to have consumerist relationships with people who have the money and that kind of thing.

In Hopewell, Virginia, people know each other because they know each other, and they stick with each other. You know, one of the weird things I noticed was if somebody got huffy and left our church because they didn't like something, nobody lost their relationship with them. They went over to, you know, they left the Presbyterian Church, went to the Pentecostal Baptist Church, but since they all knew each other, they'd known each other all their lives, they kept their relationship somehow. They didn't stop speaking to each other. And I think that could even be true here. Here, it would be bad if you only kept your Christian community inside the same church. There's lots of churches in the center of New York. So it's a step in the right direction. You also can't be too instrumental. You can't say, well, I'll do this, and I hope by next year I'll have an investor. You can't do it like that. Does that answer your question a little bit? Or do you want to? I don't. You were just trying to get me to elaborate a little bit? Sort of, yeah. Or elaborate on the idea of how to even have sort of a covenantal relationship. Well, I'm glad you gave me an opportunity to say something. When I say idols, see, the problem with traditional society, the problem with a family-oriented, family-valued society, where this is your family and these are your covenants, and you, is if you make that into an idol, there is, there's a, there's a potential for abuse. Sometimes you actually do, in other words, a woman who's being beaten by her husband should leave. I just want you to know that. There's grounds for you to do that. You shouldn't just say, oh, he's my husband. You know, you, you, because it's a covenantal relationship. And after all, I need to stick with it no matter what. That's an idol. That's, that's not the gospel. The gospel is Jesus is your savior, not your family relationship, not traditional values. But on the other hand, in a place like this, the minute somebody is not making you happy, out you go. No matter what the relationship is, marriage or not. And so both of those things are idols. And so when I talk about consumerist, to some degree, of course, even my covenantal relationships have got to, I can't just let people drain me and use me and trample on me. That's not good. It's actually showing, in some ways, making an idol out of the relationship and saying this is the only way I'll have any worth as long as I'm faithful to everybody here instead of looking to Jesus. So does that help a little bit too? Okay. Let's go. Yes. From what I think you've been saying, it's kind of like you've got the artists operating on this. They're very volatile. They're all over the place. And they're operating on this level, and they can kind of, when they bridge that, when they bridge the gap to kind of the other working sector, that they'll stabilize them through Christian community. They can bridge that gap there. Is that? I wasn't trying to stereotype you as being volatile. I think that most people come to New York City. I don't care if you think I'm volatile. I think I'm volatile. I would say there is stuff in your lives that work against social capital and community, but there's stuff in almost every other profession here. I wouldn't just say you're unstable and you need to sit down with some Republicans and stabilize it. well that's actually relevant I really wasn't saying that at all as a matter of fact honestly but our strengths are in different places artists in fact by the way probably artistic gifts is a spiritual gift

and nobody has all the gifts and the gifts need each other and all that stuff and so through the gifts what did you call them the more stable people what's a good word for them I said I didn't talk about more stable than stable. Oh, right, right. You are. What did I say about the others? Bourgeois? Oh, yeah. Is that what you're calling it? I try to use bohemian and bourgeois as a general device. Yes, bourgeois. So if the bourgeois can kind of support us in our exploits, and, man,

then, so as we, you know, as we're given this freedom to go out and be artistic and be creative, I think it's an interesting image is, when I go to an art museum, I always see all these people looking at these, you know, modern arts and, you know, really these crazy paintings, and then you've got the security guards that are standing there, and I wonder, you know, what are these people thinking of the painting? Do they mean anything to them? Like, and so prevent ourselves from getting almost too high. As we keep expanding and be creative, we just reach this level of

artisticness that it seems like we would want to give back to those people who have supported us and support us in this. But then that's kind of boring to us at that point then. I mean... Listen, a lot of those people who are security guards go to Pentecostal evangelical churches is out in the boroughs. You'd be surprised how many of the people are Christians. And your

commonality in Christ can, first of all, be very often they won't trust you at all because you are so different than they are. They're more likely to be suspicious of you. You might say, oh, I want to be diverse and I want every, you know, but they're saying like this. But actually that brings on a barrier and you may find yourself being able to be in relationships with them and find out what they think. And it actually might make you more accessible. The best thing for me in a million years, you know, you know me, but I took a church that was filled with blue collar people. Nobody had gone to college. None of them, a lot of them couldn't read because they dropped it, you know, because my older people all left school around seventh grade. It was considered self-indulgent, you know, in the 1970s, these are people that had, you know, grown up in the twenties and thirties and that sort of thing. And it was so important for me to learn how to put the cookies on the me and get rid of my pretension. And again, only in Christ do you find yourself as an equal brother or sister with people who are from pretty humble origins. And you can learn a lot from them, even about your art. It's not necessarily boring at all. So anyway, I mean, I keep pressing the idea of thick Christian relationships across the racial barriers, across the vocational barriers. It is really possible. And it is very, very possible. Anyway, I don't have much time. get these last two. Go ahead. That may have answered it, but I was just going to ask about... I'm Justin, by the way. Nice job. Thanks. I was just going to ask about in the synopsis that Florida talked about some things that at least resonated with me that I think is true of artistic types and some of the negative, in particular, the naivete about that if we just keep doing our thing the rest of the world will continue to operate. So I find in myself, I don't want to speak for anybody else, but a certain amount of self-centeredness that is particular to being an artist and particular to maybe even the purpose and vision that pushed me in an artistic direction. And so the question is, as a Christian, through the art, how do we come out of that self-centeredness?

Well, look at you. Look at the question. Look at it resonated. I may be wrong. I think your Christianity makes you more likely not to be offended by a statement like that. You at least have the basic furniture. I'm a sinner. Now, most of us who are Christians, we know intellectually we're a sinner, but in the actual day-to-day life, when somebody criticizes us, we punch them out. You know, we don't connect what we really believe, usually, with how we're actually living. We don't act like we're sinners. We don't act like we're saved by grace. You know, that's how I preach all the time. The idea is trying to connect the two. But you just made a little connection. You said, yeah. Yeah, because artists wouldn't be good artists unless you're much more self-reflective and self-aware than other people. It's just art makes you that way. I don't know whether you're like that and that makes you an artist or whether being an artist makes you like that. I haven't figured that out. But the fact that you have the intellectual furniture to say, I know in principle I'm a sinner and maybe this is where my sin is coming up, immediately it's starting to get you out of it. I don't want to give you, I don't want to pat you on the back too much. I would say if you're asking that question, if you're convicted, John 16, verse 8, the Holy Spirit is in the world to convict you of sin. If you're convicted of sin and that's a peculiar artistic sin, you're on your way. But I do think that does mean, to me, really having thick relationships with non-artists is a way of getting out of your arrogance and getting out of a feeling that the world's somehow going to go on without you. Mercy and Justice Ministries, rather than just artistic events, is part of that too. But actually, I want to give you some credit for just saying, that convicted me. Did it convict you? It should. Okay. That's just one more. Sorry. Sorry to be so. That's awfully brief, Justin, but I wanted to finish here. I actually have more of a comment. And I wanted to say this because I'm somebody who's been, I'm a writer mostly for the last two years, and I've been getting by on about $30 to $40 a week for food and transit. for much of the last two years. So it's been lean times. And I just want to attest that the fellowship groups that I have been involved in through Redeemer have been such a tremendous blessing to me. And one thing that's just been running through my mind while I've been in line is the image of the body of Christ. And I think what you have talked about is the tendency of toes to hang out together and hands to hang out together. other and we are really called to mingle and to function as a unified whole and I was also struck by your allusion to art as a gift because the purpose of the gifts is to serve and one of the things that I've been working on is a book about my struggle with chastity and it's been really good to be in a home fellowship group because it really grounds that discussion and that art in the context of people who could actually be blessed by this. And especially because it's memoir, which could be very narcissistic. And it's been such a blessing to be in that community and to constantly be thinking about how can this be something that is a blessing to other people. So I would just say, going into those home fellowship groups, not looking for anything other than Christian community has really unleashed so much blessing. thing. I mean, there have been so many weeks that they've given me like leftover Metro cards or, you know, the leftover groceries or the change in their bowl. And like, God has so blessed me and provided for my needs through that. But one thing I would say, having been in two home fellowship groups, pray and pray with the same people. Because in the second group, we have had a pretty consistent group. It's usually like three or four of the women who pray together. And that has built thick relationship so much more than another group where we were praying, but it and there was no accountability and there was so much going on in my life that people should have been like, what are you doing? But nobody knew. And in the second group, you know, they hold my feet to the fire every week because there is that accountability. Yeah, because prayer is extremely intimate. Yes. Very, very intimate. But it's being intimate before God, which is back to the only safe way to do it. Right. That was a perfect comment to end with. Thank you so much. Thank you.

Thank you.