We're going to read the passage that we come to tonight. It's printed in your bulletin, 1 Peter 3, 18 to 22. And this is one of the advantages and the disadvantages of this particular approach of going through a book of the Bible consecutively on consecutive Sundays. The advantages and the disadvantages are this. This is a passage that you would never hear preached on, if the minister was able to choose the passage that, you know, would be preferable. And it's bad for me because it's a passage I never would have chosen. When you're going through a book of the Bible, you come to these passages, and the reason you preach on them is the same reason people climb Mount Everest, because it's there. It came up. Now, all Scripture is inspired and profitable, but not all Scriptures are equally easy to use. But let's go. Let me read to you 22, and we'll see something about what Luther called the most wonderful obscure text he knows. First Peter 3, for Christ died for sins once for all, the righteous for the unrighteous, to bring you to God. He was put to death in the body but made alive by the Spirit, through whom also he went and preached to the spirits in prison, who disobeyed long ago when God waited patiently in the days of Noah while the ark was being built. In it only a few people, And this water symbolizes baptism that now saves you. Not the removal of dirt from the body, but the pledge of a good conscience toward God. It saves you by the resurrection of Jesus Christ, who has gone into heaven and is at God's right hand, with angels, authorities, and powers in submission to him. And this is God's word. Now, things we're going to do. First of all, it's time to stand back a little bit and remind ourselves of the context Peter was writing to a certain group of people, and he was trying to get a certain theme across all through this epistle, this letter. And unless you sometimes stand back and remember Peter's basic teaching, you can't understand how a particular passage is really to be understood, because everything he says is a way of trying to get at this basic theme. So let's talk about what that basic theme and his basic message is. Let's look at the context. Then let's look at the hard part that's hard to understand on baptism, and then let's look at the clear and easy part that's easy to understand on resurrection. So the context, baptism, and the resurrection. Context. Peter, you remember, and maybe you don't, but that's why we're doing this, because I hardly do. It's been such a long time since we went on this. Peter is talking to people who have suffered and are about to suffer far more profoundly than most anyone else in this room. These people have been persecuted. They've had their homes plundered for the sake of their beliefs, and many of them are about to face imminent death. And so Peter writes this book, and his purpose in writing the book is to talk about how the dynamic of Christ's life can be reenacted in ours. He calls the gospel in chapter 1 verse 11, he calls the gospel the sufferings of Christ and the glories that followed. The sufferings of Christ and the glories that would follow. And that's his summary of the gospel. And Peter says, and this is the point, this is the burden of the book and the burden of this passage, that can be reenacted in us. The glory and the distinctiveness of being a Christian is that sufferings lead to glory. Now let me put it to you three ways. The greatness and the distinctiveness of the Christian life is not that we escape troubles, but that we have something within us that uses troubles to turn us into great things, great people, great ones. The glory and the distinctiveness of Christianity is not that we escape troubles, but that we have something within us that uses those troubles to turn us into something great, let me put it a little more starkly than that, but I'm saying the same thing. Christianity teaches that Christians have something that enables us to grow not only despite failures and sufferings, but because of failures and sufferings. Or let me put it even more starkly, Christians have something within them that enables them to succeed through their failures. Now let's dwell on this for a minute. In Peter, in the beginning of the chapter, for chapter 1, he talks about the gospel. And the gospel is a dynamic. Without the gospel, all you have for a basis is a lifeless standard. Now, everybody has to have a basis. A basis for what? Romans 2 talks about it. It says everybody has got to have a basis for approval and disapproval. I can't take you into Romans chapter 2, but it's a psychological fact of life. it's also a theological fact. Nobody can operate without a basis on which to approve or disapprove those around you and yourself. You've got to have a basis for approval and disapproval. Now, the Bible tells us the gospel is a dynamic. If you don't have the gospel in the middle of your life, the only thing you can have as a basis, and everybody's got to have a basis for approval and disapproval is a standard, a lifeless abstract standard. And if you have a standard, whatever it is, one that you chose, one that you got from another religion, one you got from psychology 101 or philosophy 101, whatever your standard is, once you get it, it divides your life into two parts, success and failure, period. Success is all success and failure is all failure. Either you are living up to the standard and so you have a basis for approval, you're you're succeeding, or you're not living up to the standard and you have no basis for approval, which means you're failing. And so to admit you haven't lived up to the standard is to actually admit the destruction of your basis of approval. Now the gospel is not a lifeless standard. The gospel is a power. The gospel contains a standard, a very powerful one. The standard of the gospel is that you want to please him. You want to please the one who saved So his will is our command. That's a standard. But the gospel is not just a standard. It contains a standard. It is filled with dynamic assurances. And those assurances are that because of what Jesus Christ did in his life and his death, the standard of God's law has been legally fulfilled for us who believe. And you know what that means? This is very important. It means that if the gospel is not your basis, repentance is always unto death. To repent, to admit that you have failed, is to admit you have no basis for approval. It's to admit the destruction of your basis. Apart from the gospel, repentance is under death. But in the gospel, repentance is under life because if all you have as a standard, repentance is to actually admit the destruction of your basis of approval. But in the gospel, repentance actually gets you more in touch with your basis. It renews your basis, and here's why, and here's exactly how it works. If you, as a Christian, are moving along through life and you're basically doing the things you want to do, you're essentially reaching your goals. What are your standards? Well, the will of God, the law of God. And so you're doing pretty much what you think should happen, whether you know it or not. And I'm not telling you, I'm telling you this is a psychological reality for years. When things are going well, you may think that you're living out of your base, that your base for approval is the grace of God, but it's not. You're drawing your joy, you're drawing your confidence out of your performance of living up to the standard. You see, your basis for feeling accepted by God and accepted by yourself, your ability to look God in the face and your ability to look yourself in the face is not coming from the grace of God. No, you're living out of your

only time you begin to realize what's going on is when you fail. And when you start to repent, you suddenly begin to realize this. You say to yourself, wait a minute. Wait a minute. What is it that all along was the reason that God has helped me? What is the basis all along for the fact that God hears my prayer? It never has been these things. It never has been the living up to standards. It's been grace. And you see, when you fail, outside of the gospel, repentance always means the breaking up of your basis of approval. But inside the gospel, repentance always means the recapturing of the basis of your approval. It gets you back in touch with grace. You say, it always was grace. What's held me up all along has always been grace. It's This is the reason why Christians, according to Peter, are people who move into glory through suffering. They move into success through failure. In other words, look, the amazing difference you see in Christians is this. What does it mean to be a Christian? What makes you different? What happens that makes you different once you're a Christian? There's a legalist fantasy, and there's there's a liberal fantasy, and then there's the Christian reality. The legalist fantasy is once you become a Christian, now your life is together. Once you become a Christian, now you make, you don't have moral problems. Once you become a Christian now, you do well. That's the legalist fantasy. The liberal fantasy is now that you become a Christian, you live pretty much like anybody else. You do pretty much like anybody else, but now you're forgiven. You're totally pardoned. See, the legalist fantasy is you don't have any problems. The liberal fantasy is you're just a forgiven sinner. But the Christian reality is you are a repentant person. You're not just a forgiven sinner that lives the same old way, nor are you this paragon of virtue now that doesn't fail. Instead, what Peter is saying here is you repent in your failures joyfully and you depend in your sufferings joyfully, and failures and sufferings gets you back toward your basis back in touch with your basis the Puritans were very clear on this the Puritans said how do you know what your basis is how do you know if your real basis is the gospel it's very simple in failure and in repentance you get closer to God if the gospel is your basis but if just some kind of standard is your basis repentance is always under anger and it's always under anxiety and it's always under bitterness The Puritans put it another way. In suffering and troubles, if your basis is the gospel, you find you get more in touch with the grace of God. If, on the other hand, your basis is just a lifeless standard of some kind, moral performance, in suffering, you get bitter and you say to God, what good has it done me that I have been religious? What good has it done me? And therefore, the sufferings and the glory that follow, follow. That's what it's all about. Christians have something within them that enables them to progress out of their sins through their failures and through suffering.

That's what Peter's saying. And if you don't understand that, you're not going to understand anything else in the book, but in particular, you're not going to understand this passage. Now let's take a look at the hard part and the easy part. Hard part first. But actually the hard part makes sense once you understand the context. Look, here's the great part.

Look. Through whom also he went, this is Jesus, and preached to the spirits in prison who disobeyed long ago when God patiently waited in the days of Noah while the ark was being built. All right. What in the heck does that mean? Let me give you a nice little quote by Martin Luther. Martin Luther was a great Bible commentator, and this is just a great quote. He says, He says, quote, a wonderful text is this, and a more obscure passage than any other anywhere in the Bible. Therefore, I do not know for a certainty what Peter means at all.

He says, a wonderful text is this, and a more obscure passage than any other in the New Testament. Therefore, I have no idea what the heck he's talking about. But actually, Luther did have an idea, and so do I. There's basically two, over the years, there's basically two different interpretations of the passage, just two. The one is that there was some, when Jesus died and he was in the grave, there was some prison someplace where a bunch of spirits were imprisoned, and they were spirits of the people who died in the flood, and they had been disobedient to Noah's preaching, referring back to the story about this in Genesis 9, and that one Jesus was in the grave before he was resurrected. He went and he preached to those spirits. Now, there's all kinds of problems with that. There's no other reference to anything like this anywhere else, and it's... here's what the problems are. It could almost make sense if it said that all of the spirits of the people who died before Jesus came were all sort of locked up in some kind of netherworld, and Jesus came and preached the gospel to them so they could hear the gospel. Now, that would almost make sense, but that's not what it says. It says there was a particular group that are in prison. It says there's a group of spirits in prison from the time of Noah, and Jesus just goes and preaches to them. And that doesn't make a whole lot of sense. Why? There's no other references to so careful. You know, the Bible, we know the Bible's our standard, and as a result of that, and since the Bible cannot be broken, and we cannot pick and choose what we want to believe about it, therefore, the things we do take upon ourselves as obligatory to us should be mentioned more than once. In other words, you want to make sure that it's mentioned in a number of places, that it's not something in doubt, not based on one little obscure text. And therefore, Therefore, you know, some people say, for example, well, it just means that Jesus went to hell, and he preached to the spirits who were in hell and told them about his triumph. The word preach means good news. It doesn't make much sense that Jesus would go and rub people's noses in it, and it just doesn't make any sense at all. Not only that, there's nothing in the text that says this happened between Jesus' death and resurrection. The other interpretation, which is a better one, but who knows, it was first put forward by Augustine, and if anybody If anybody cares, you can get a commentary on 1 Peter by a man named Wayne Grudem. And what Wayne Grudem says is that the translation is difficult here, and actually what we should be translating this text as saying is this. We should actually be saying that he went and preached to those who are now spirits in prison and who formerly disobeyed. Wayne Grudem says, and Augustine said, that what it's really trying to say is that Jesus preached during the disobedience. Jesus went and preached to people while they were disobedient, not afterwards. In other words, he went and preached to people who were being disobedient who are now spirits in prison. And how could Jesus have done that? Simple. Paul says in Ephesians 2, 17, he says to the Ephesians, Christ came and preached peace to you. Yeah, we know that Christ has never been to Ephesus. Well, then what does Paul mean? He means that Christ preaches through the people who preach. preach. And probably what this means is that Jesus preached to them through Noah. In fact, 2 Peter 2, 5 says Noah was a preacher of righteousness. Now, what does this all mean? What he's actually trying to do, he mentions this because he wants to bring up Noah. Why does he want to bring up Noah? Because of this. It says, in the days of Noah, only a few people, eight in all, were saved through water. And this water symbolizes baptism that now saves you also. Not the removal of dirt from the body, but the pledge of a good conscience toward God. Here's what I'm pretty sure he's getting after. This word through. Noah was saved through water. The word through is the Greek word dia, from which we get our word diameter. It means through, but it can mean either from or by. It could mean they were saved from the water, out of the midst of the water, or it could mean they were saved by the water. Which is it? Because of the ark, it's both. They got in the ark to be saved from the water, and yet because they were in the ark, the water actually saved them from itself. Because while the rest of the people were crushed under the water at the bottom, because they got into the ark, they were saved from the water by the water. And don't you see what Peter's getting at? This is what he's been getting at all the way through. When the great flood waves of the troubles of this world hit you, you've got to climb into Christ by obeying him. Don't be like the disobedient. Be like Noah. What's it mean? It means something fairly simple. Let me just give you a great example. Somebody at work you are tempted to hate. Somebody at work you want to be bitter against. The Bible says forgive. You figure out what it means to forgive. It's too hard. The floodwaters come. What are you going to do? You can be crushed under them. If you hate, if you're bitter, if you're cold, if you're disobedient, the suffering will crush you. It will make you something very deformed. It will make you something very, very pathological. It will make you harder. older. Or you can obey. Like Noah, climb into Christ and you will find that as hard as it is and as much as every day it seems like you have to cling to God just to get through it, just to keep yourself from falling back into bitterness, when it's all done you will find that the very waters that would have crushed you will save you. It'll lift you up. The glory and distinctiveness of the Christian life is not that we escape troubles and escape the floods, but we have something within us that uses those things to make us into something great. Well, Peter then goes so far as to say exactly how that works. And he tells them, he says, how do you climb into Christ? It's by baptism. Now, again, this is another difficult verse because many people have used this to say, look, it actually says, does it not, baptism saves us. So therefore, everybody from the Roman Catholic Church of the Church of Christ has said, unless you get water on you, you're not saved. See? No one was saved by water. You're saved by water. Now, not only does that not make sense in the context of the Bible, but not even in the context of the text. First of all, in the context of the Bible, Paul goes to such lengths to say neither circumcision or uncircumcision matter at all but a new birth. He says, not by the deeds of the law, but by faith alone are you saved. Now, do you think Peter, Paul, John, these teachers that have put forth a great doctrine of justification by faith, that they're saying, well, there is one exception. It's faith and one thing you've got to do, just one. You've got to be baptized. But apart from that, it's nothing but faith. No sense at all. And besides that, look carefully. Peter actually makes sure you don't misunderstand it that way. I know a number of churches say you've got to be baptized to be saved. But Peter actually says, I don't mean by that the physical thing that the water does. I don't mean the water on your skin. I don't mean the water and the removal of filth. He says, I mean what you do in the event of baptism is what saves you. It's the pledge that arises from a good conscience. That's a very significant phrase. When you get baptized, what What saves you is not the water on your body, but it's the pledge. A pledge is a covenant. It's a very, very important Greek word that means a covenant. But it's a covenant that arises out of the fact your conscience is clean. You've heard the gospel, and you realize your sins are forgiven. And because your sins are forgiven, you commit. You don't commit to get your sins forgiven. You commit because your sins are forgiven, and it's the gospel in faith alone in the gospel that saves you. But if you understand the gospel of grace, You climb into an ark. The day that you understand the gospel of grace, you climb into an ark, and as long as you're willing to obey, as long as you're patient like Noah, as long as you're willing to endure, because obedience is very hard, it will lift you up instead of turn you into something hard and cold. Now, to the part that's the most easy to see and is the most glorious, now what does it tell us about the resurrection? direction. Well, you see, this is really, in a sense, what Peter's been talking about all the way along. He's been saying that when you obey, it always looks like a death. Does it not? When you obey, it looks like a death. When Abraham was there about to slay Isaac, as we were talking about in the morning sermon, in the Bible, John Huston's movie, The Bible, when little Isaac says to Abraham, George C. Scott in this case, is there nothing he cannot ask of thee? And Abraham says, nothing. And then we're told in the book of Hebrews that the reason that Abraham was willing to do this was he figured that God would resurrect Isaac. All Abraham knew was that God said, obey me, and God had also said, I'm going to bring a great people from the loins of Isaac. So you see, many times God's commands don't make sense from the human reason. And for you to obey looks like it's going to lead to death. It looks like it's going to lead to death, but there's always a resurrection on the other side of the apparent death. The resurrection, here's what we're taught about the resurrection. Just these three things, but they're wonderful things. In fact, every one of these three things is a sermon, another sermon. And yet, we can't do that. Instead, we just need to knock them off. The three things it tells us of these. First of all, it tells us that the resurrection is intimately, intimately connected to the death of Christ. It says, he was put to death in the body but made alive in the spirit. Now, that word but is so significant so often, and here it is again. The death of Jesus Christ is a tragedy, but he was raised. The death of Jesus Christ is meaningless, but unless he's raised, let me put it to you this way. What if your friend came to see you at your apartment, and you know it's ten o'clock at night, and your friend says, why don't you turn the lights on? You say, well, they cut off my electricity because I wasn't paying my utility bill, so let's just light a candle. And your friend says, I'll tell you what I'm going to do. I'm going to go down to the utility place, and I'm going to pay for, I don't know what your bill is, I don't even know if I have enough money, but I'm going to try to pay. So your friend goes off, and after half an hour or so, your lights come on again. How do you know your friend was able to pay the penalty? Because the penalty has been canceled. Let's just say you go back in a time machine to the days in which when you fell into debt, you didn't declare bankruptcy, but instead you became an indentured slave, an indentured servant. And so there you are chained up in the servant's quarters and a friend comes by and says, what are you doing here? And you say, well, I owe the master. I don't know how much money. Your friend says, well, I don't know if I got enough don't know if I can make good the debt, but I'm going to go see him. So he goes to see him, and you don't know what's going to happen. And suddenly somebody else shows up at the servants' quarters and said, off with your chains, you're free.

Because the chains fell off, because the lights came on, you know the debt was paid. And that's the reason why Paul says, if Christ is not raised, you're still in your sins. When Christ was raised from the dead, death, the penalty, had been canceled. When Jesus was raised from the grave, the lights had come on in the whole world. This had never happened before because death is not natural. Death is a penalty. And when Jesus was raised from the dead, that and that alone proves that what Jesus did on the cross worked. That's why Paul says, if Christ is not raised, you're still dead in your sins. and what's wonderful about this is the resurrection here it shows us that the death of christ secured something the resurrection is not simply a wonderful miracle showing the naked power of god does not raise jesus from the dead to say this is the teacher who will show you the way my resurrection has proved that you should listen to him now listen to his teaching that's not it the resurrection that would be great that would be tremendous that would be wonderful but this is even more wonderful. The resurrection says, this is your Savior, and what he did on the cross affected something. It accomplished something. This is the reason why Paul says, if you're somebody who says, well, I believe Jesus is a great moral teacher, but I don't believe he was raised from the dead. You can't believe in miracles anymore. You can't believe, and that's too far-fetched. His spirit lives on. Paul says, you're dead in the water. You're dead in your sins because you have no idea what the death of Christ means unless you see the resurrection has to happen. If the resurrection has to happen, Jesus' death is meaningless. Jesus' death is silly. Jesus' death makes no sense. Jesus' death accomplished nothing.

If your friend goes off and says, I'm going to pay the debt and your lights never come on, then that debt was never paid. That's the resurrection. That's the gospel. Something happened. Something's accomplished. Accomplished. That's the glory of the resurrection. The second thing we're told is the resurrection is intimately connected with the ascension. The ascension. Because it says Jesus Christ has gone into heaven and is at God's right hand with angels, authorities, and powers in submission to him. The resurrection besides showing us that he was the suffering servant that he came and did this amazing thing for you. The resurrection has another referent. It shows us that now he's the What does it mean when it says he's ascended? Now it means a lot of things, but the main thing it means is that he's king. This morning we talked a little bit about this, but let me just mention it again. We all understand what physical discipline is. We all understand what physical discipline is. Generally you pay a coach, he or she, that has this great body and you want to have a great body like him or her. the regimen. And what does this mean? Physical discipline is simple. There's a lot of things that you feel are right, but your coach says no. It feels right to stay in bed in the morning. It feels absolutely right to do, but you get up and you run. It feels right to eat this food, but your coach says no, you're going to eat this instead. And so discipline, physical discipline means some things that feel right, in spite of the fact they feel right, there's authority over you and you set boundaries and you do things that though they feel right or wrong your coach says this feels right but it's wrong your coach says this feels right wrong but it's right and you see if you don't do that if you follow your feelings instead you're under no physical discipline at all and you'll never have the freedom of having a wonderful body like her or him moral discipline is the same what does it mean to say Jesus is resurrected authority, and it means that he tells you how you should live, and we have to give him at least the authority we give the gym coach. It means there has to be places in our lives where it feels right to do something. It feels absolutely right, but we allow the king to say, though it feels right, it's wrong, and though here, though it feels wrong, it's right. The resurrection means he's the king.

Now you see, if you don't let him tell you things are wrong if you don't let him revise and red pencil your life, he's not your king. He's only the suffering servant. But the resurrection tells us he's not just the suffering servant, he's also the risen Lord.

Lastly, the most wonderful thing in some ways, is Jesus is made a spiritual body. It says, the resurrection we're told, he was put to death in the body but made alive by the spirit. Some people think this simply means that though he died physically, he lived spiritually, dumb because you see, if his body died but his spirit continued, it wouldn't say he was made alive, would it? No. It would say he died in the body and he continued, but it says he was made alive, which means he's saying the same thing here that Paul says when it says Jesus became a life-giving spirit. And I'd like to spend more time on this, but I can't. But Jesus got a body that seems to combine the spiritual and physical, the qualities that we think of as spiritual and We know that he went through locked doors and yet he ate a fish. The Puritans, using this word in the original English meaning of it, the Puritans used to say, praise God for a homely salvation. You know, the word homely now means kind of ugly, but that's not what they meant. They said, look at all the other religions. They promise you an unphysical, ethereal kind of continuance of consciousness. But what is being promised to us here is we will hug in the kingdom of God. hug in the monistic, pantheistic, you know, nirvana. You can't even hug in Plato and Aristotle's, you know, world of ideas because you've gotten rid of the body. No.

God loves the physical and yet knows the physical needs to be redeemed. There is an attitude that Christians have toward the physical that nobody else has. On the one hand, you've got people who say, do what the physical says, but the Bible says it needs to be redeemed. On the other hand, you've got people who say the physical is bad, and yet God loves it. So it's part of the redemption. Christians are never against the physical, but they don't trust the physical.

And therefore, we are told we have a salvation unlike the prospect held out by any other religion. We will march in the kingdom of God. Our feet will not float over the streets. It will march. We will hug in the kingdom of God. We will eat. We will learn in the kingdom of God. We will sing in the kingdom of God.

We will see each other. will become bright stainless mirrors reflecting back to God his own boundless power and joy and wisdom and nobility. If you could see a picture of what you will look like if you're in Christ today, what you would like, if you could see a picture, you'd be tempted to bow down and worship yourself. And yet you will be you.

The death of obedience leads to glory unimaginable. The death of self-denial leads to glory unimaginable. The sufferings and the glory that will follow. Let's pray. Father, we ask that you would grant now that we would be able to apply this to ourselves. Some of us are suffering. Show us that depending on you and your grace is like climbing into an ark and the very troubles that could crush us lead us home. Some of us, Father, are facing temptations. We pray that you would show that enduring like Noah and climbing into the ark will lift us up and turn us into great hearts. Help us to see that the death of obedience always leads to the resurrection and the glories that follow. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.