James chapter 1, we've been going through all fall and will continue to go through the book of James, and I'm just going to read from verses 19 to 21 what's printed there. My dear brothers, take note of this. Everyone should be quick to listen, slow to speak, and slow to become angry, for man's anger does not bring about the righteous life that God desires. Therefore, get rid of all moral filth and the evil that is so prevalent, and humbly accept the word planted in you, which can save you. This is God's word. Now, you know, one of the things that's so interesting about James is how no-nonsense he is. We've been noticing that. Let me show it to you again. In verse 18, which is not printed there, but that we looked at last week, he makes a very simple statement. He says, he chose, talking about God, he chose to give us birth through the word of truth. He chose to give us birth through the word of truth. In other words, James says, we're born again. Now, that is an unbelievable statement. In New York City, and we looked at this briefly last week, and briefly again tonight, I'm very brief because James is brief about it. It's an amazing statement. In New York, everybody has heard the term born-again Christian, and it's used to mean a type of Christian, right? And sometimes it's a very flattering term. Usually it's not. It's a very nasty term, but it means a kind of Christian. And yet what James says, and what every writer virtually in the New Testament says, is a born-again Christian is a redundancy. That to be a Christian is to be born again. To be born again is to be a Christian. If you're not born again, the Bible says, you're not a Christian. If you haven't experienced the new birth, you're not a Christian at all. It's absolutely wrong, absolutely mistaken to think about born-again Christians as a kind of Christianity. You know, in John chapter 3, here's Jesus saying to Nicodemus, you must be born again to see the kingdom of God. You must be born again to enter the kingdom of God. Not, well, some of us need to be born again. We have this emotional need. No, you must be born again. And some of you may have noticed that in every book of the Bible that we've studied in these evening services over the years, that every single author comes to it again. Every single author comes to it. Last year, well, two years ago, in 1 Peter, Peter says in chapter 1, verse 23, we are born again, not of perishable seed, but of imperishable, the living and enduring word of God. And last year, in 1 John, we have this emotional need. In 1 John, we went through that letter. It talks about we're born of God, and because we're born of God, we live in the light and so forth. Every single writer says it. It's not for some people. It's for anybody who's a Christian. Now, I know that there's plenty of churches in which the term new birth or being born again is never used. And what's put out there is that through Jesus, you can have forgiveness and you can, you try your very best to live according to his teachings. And that's, I thank God. That's not Christianity. I thank God that he hasn't given us. I thank God that we don't have a born again list. Christianity is no Christianity because it leaves you with your own resources. Try your best and ask for forgiveness and maybe you'll make it. God has not just given us forgiveness. He has not just given us a sort of special help to get us over the humps. He's given us new life. He's given us a new nature. He's given us his own power. We're... It's... It's his nature and his substance which is put into us. In 2 Peter 1, verse 4, it says, We have been made partakers of the divine nature. Now, during the question and answer time this morning, we talked a little bit about this common... It's a common view in the Bible that... Pardon me. A common view in New York that all religions are really different ways up the same mountain. We're all finding our ways up the same mountain and everybody has a different way to try to get to the top. And this proves right here that there... This is a whole different mountain. Christianity gives you an entirely different summit. There is no other religion that would make such a claim. None. No other religion says, You can be born again. You must be born again. A partaker of the divine nature. Some of you say, Well, wait a minute. And if you've been involved in near... Put it this way. New age kinds of religions and philosophies. You've heard people talk about something that sounds like this. You've heard them say something about we can have God in us. We can have the divine in us. We need to nurture the divine in us. But you have to remember this. There's a concept of God those folks are dealing with. Which is very different than this one. See, there's a concept of God that says God is the kind of divine life force in all creation. And so you get in touch with that. And if you meditate, you do whatever the particular religion says to do, you can have more God consciousness. And in that sense, it seems to be talking about the same thing, but it's not. It's not at all. This is the biblical God. The biblical conception of God is not that he's simply a force in creation, but he existed before creation. He created what's here out of nothing. He's infinitely exalted above creation. He plays with constellations the way we sift sand through our fingers. And this is the one, we're told, has imparted life in us. No other religion makes this the goal. No other religion makes this the summit. This is a totally different mountain. Either it's no mountain, it's the wrong mountain, or it's the right mountain, but it's not the same mountain. No other religion is saying do this. No other religion says it can be done. No other religion says it must be done. But you must be born again, says the Bible. Now, here's the interesting thing about James. He just says it. He says, he chose to give us birth through the word of truth. And almost any other place where the new birth is brought up, you find that the writer spent some time delving into the metaphysical mysteries. I mean, the idea that new life is implanted in us, the divine substance comes in. Why? There's a lot of, there's a lot to talk about. There's a lot of distinctions to be made. There's a lot of mysteries to plumb. Not James. Oh, no. He's a pragmatic,

practical pastor. And he moves, he moves right from that. He says, we're born, he chose to give us new birth through the word of truth. And then immediately he says, and my dear brothers, take note of this. Everyone should be quick to listen, slow to speak, slow to become angry. For man's anger does not bring about the righteous life that God desires. Therefore, get rid of all moral filth and the evil that's so prevalent and humbly accept the word planted in you, which can save you. Now, see, he's on the same subject that he was in verse 18. He says, we're born again, through the word. What's he doing here? James immediately addresses a very practical issue. You know, the fact is, if you tell somebody, in fact, if you even talk amongst Christians, if you talk amongst Christians, say, you know, we're born again. Christians have to ask a question. There's a very practical issue that immediately arises. If we're born again, why are we no better than we are? If we're born again, why are we not more remarkable, remarkable than we are? Now, sometimes, we give ourselves actually a bad rap. I really want to be balanced about this. I hate to, I always hate to use illustrations from the town in which I am. You know, you notice how many illustrations I use from Virginia? You know, I never, because I don't want people to think, well, I talked to the pastor, I may become a sermon illustration someday. And I don't want that and I don't do that. But this is, I haven't seen this person in a long time. Let me just say, in the very beginning of the church, when the church was born, brand new. I think all of us, those of you who are here, know that we weren't exactly kind of knee-deep in spiritual giants at the time. We, we're, you know, not a particularly spiritually mature group of people, I wouldn't say. And yet, I remember speaking to a woman who came to church once, a couple times, but she wouldn't come back. But she spoke to me after church one night. And she told me, first of all, that she was a very, very high, highly paid prostitute. She made an awful lot of money. And, she said, she was sort of interested in spiritual things, and here's the reasons why. She says, Christians are different. I said, what do you mean? She says, well, first of all, she says, there are flaky Christians, and there are hypocritical Christians. But in general, I'm finding that the Christians, and she was talking about the people that were trying to reach out to her in our church. I find that in general, the Christians are, they're more interested in you for yourself. They don't drop you as soon as they find out that, you know, you're not an important person. But secondly, they're also more willing to admit when they're wrong. You know, they're more willing to repent. Now, I was, I appreciated that, and she's right. She's being honest. She was looking at people who were not the most necessarily mature body of people that I've ever seen, and yet, there were changes. She saw the changes. She said, there's something different. And sometimes, we look at each other, and we don't see the changes. We don't see each other's remarkable, and another reason for that is partly because we don't know what we used to be like. You meet somebody here in church, and you say, that's a pretty nice person, you know. Hey, you have no idea what she or he used to be like. You have no idea what they were like five years ago or ten years ago. So, to some degree, we sometimes under-appreciate the changes that the new birth brings about. People's lives are truly changed. They're changed inexplicably. That lady knew it, and she was attracted to it, but not enough to bite on the gospel. But she knew there was something going on there. On the other hand, on the other hand, there's not nearly, if it's true that there's divine power that's come into us in the new birth, there's not nearly as much change as there should be. There's not the joy that there should be. There's not the courage that there should be. There's not the power that ought to be, that can be. It's just not there. And that's a quick question. Why not? And James tells us what we can do about that. Don't you want to see that life expressed? If it's in you in seed form, right? You know, an acorn, there's this great line, Charles Spurgeon, a great Baptist preacher, says, if only you had eyes to see, you will see that there's oceans of wood in the acorn's cup. He says, you know, in the acorn's cup, look at the acorn, little acorn, he says, in there is all that's necessary to grow a giant oak. And in that giant oak is all the acorns to have hundreds of other oaks, hundreds of other oaks. It's all in one acorn. The whole world could, be, completely covered with wood, just from the power of one acorn. And if that's true, that God's put that kind of power into simple, biologic and botanical life, how much more has he put into you? Well, then, what's wrong? So he says, I know I'm better. I'm a lot better. But, oh, yeah, I should be so much better. Well, what should we do? And James tells you right here, and it's actually a very, very, you know, at first it looks kind of commonplace, but if you look at it, it's pretty amazing. This is what he says. He says, you have to get rid of a know-it-all, proud, controlling, angry spirit, and you have to humbly, look, this is the secret, you have to humbly accept the word that's been planted in you. It's one thing for it to be planted in you, you have to accept it. You have to humbly accept it. Now, what's that mean? First of all, let's just ask these two questions, and this is, it'll tell us what it means. First of all, what does it mean when he talks about the word planted in you? And the answer is real brief. If you, there's a number of places in chapter one that he keeps talking about this. The word of truth, he calls it. The word planted in you. A little further by, not next week, but the week after next and so on, we get to the place where he calls the word the royal law. But in chapter two, verse eight, he says this. He says, if you really keep the royal law, which is found in scripture, and then he goes, but there it is. What is the word of truth? The word of truth is God's will, God's mind and heart, as it's revealed in the Bible. But then when he says, this truth that's in the Bible is also in you. And the word planted is a hapaxlegomena, which means it is the only place in the whole New Testament, in the whole Bible, where this particular Greek word is used. And it's a word that in Greek literature means natural versus acquired. Natural. Something that's planted is natural to you rather than acquired. And this is an amazing claim. I mean, if I read a book, let's say I don't know much about the history of New York. If I sit down and read the book on the history of New York, now I know it. But I acquired it. It wasn't natural. It wasn't in me. I was very happy when I got it, but it was acquired. If I sit down and read a book on computer software program of some sort, it's acquired. And so you right away say, all information's acquired. No information is natural. This tells us, however, that some, when you're born again, some information, the essentials about God, about sin, about who you are as a sinner, about who you are in Christ, about what Jesus said, what Jesus has done to reconcile us to God, the essential truths of the central message of God has been planted in you. It's in you. It's part of you. It's been grafted in. Now, what that means is the way you can tell you're born again, one of the main ways you can tell you're born again is how you react when you get into the presence of the scripture. One of the most interesting things I noticed about reading, and I've been recently rereading it, Jonathan Edwards, about Jonathan Edwards' works, when he saw a lot of revival happen, he was a pastor in the 1740s in New England. He wrote four books, or three books at least, trying to understand the difference between real born-again Christians and false, spurious Christian or religious experience. His books are all about how you can discern real Christianity from spurious Christianity. He wrote, one called The Distinguishing Marks of the Spirit of God. He wrote another one called Thoughts on Revival. He wrote another one called The Religious Affections. But in every one of them he says this, Christians have a new appreciation. They have a new relationship to the scripture. The same thing that's been planted in the scripture has been planted in you. And when you get into the presence of it, deep calls to deep. You're different. See, when the new birth is not just power in general, but it's the power of God come in the form of truth. You're born again by the imperishable seed, the living and abiding word of God. You're born again according to the truth. And when you get into the presence of the truth, unlike any other bit of information, you come into the presence of something that has been grafted into you. You look at the Bible in a sense and you say, I'm made of this. And now there's a deep response to it. Deep calls to deep, see? This is bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh, you see. Before you're a Christian, the Bible can be extremely interesting. It's information. After you become a Christian, it's food. It's air. You relate to it. Your system relates to it the way a hungry person relates to food. The way a suffocating person relates to air. The way a thirsty person relates to water. It's not just intellectual anymore. Mm-mm. Have you ever been dying of thirst and you get something to drink? You don't say, how interesting, you see, you know? You just, you dive in. You absolutely dive in. Are you utterly hot and you're just about dying and now you have a pool of cold water to, you know, you don't get up and say, well, this is going to be great. It just, there's an impulse and Edwards says, that's the way you know you're born again because you've been made of this thing and you feel and you sense that you're in the presence of something alive. You feel that? Do you sense that? Now, Edwards, being a great theologian, he breaks it out a little bit and he says, well, now, what does it mean? He says, well, you know, you can talk an amazing statement. I mean, you can try to, you can talk phenomenologically. Okay? What do I mean by that? I mean, a Christian can, let me talk phenomenologically and those of you who are born again will know what I'm talking about. You can put a scripture text on your heart and if you, no matter how cold your heart is, if you meditate on it and you memorize it and you think about it all day, it becomes like a hot iron and it melts, no matter how thick the ice is over your heart, it melts it. It becomes a hot iron. Before you're a Christian, you may have actually known the things that the Bible says but they were one-dimensional and now they're three-dimensional. See? You sense that there's a living presence dealing with you. Now, you see, you can speak like that. You can speak phenomenologically or, oh, I'll give you another example. I read this years ago. When I was just a brand new Christian, I was really not sure what I thought about the Bible in some ways, especially since I was in college and I was listening to a lot of stuff that made me question its integrity and I read an article by a philosopher and a professor at Princeton named Emile Callier and it's very, I've never forgotten this little article. I can't find it, of course, but what he said was that when he was a young man, he decided he wasn't a believer. He decided he was going to create a book that understood him and so whenever he went into any book and he found a passage that just hit him, you know, right here, he wrote it down and whenever he found a poem that hit him right here, he wrote it down and he said, finally, I'm going to have a book that whenever I pick it up, I'm just going to weep through the whole thing. It's going to speak right to what I am and where I am and who I am at the moment and after he had actually been accruing it for about a year, he sat down one night, he says, one day under a tree and he got it out and he read it and he changed and the things that were on his heart now weren't on his heart then and the book he created couldn't change with him. It's almost like, you know, when he first wrote this stuff down in, he was right there and the book had him in it and it could just, you know, shoot right into his heart but you see, when he moved as he got older, the book couldn't move. It's still aimed over here because it's not a living thing because it's mechanical, not organic and after he became a Christian, he said, and the name of the article was The Book That Understands Me. The Book That Understands Me. What do you mean? It's alive. He says, it says no matter where I move, you know, it's always got me in its sights. You know, it just, it's alive. There's what's going on here. Philosophy professor, Princeton. You're in the presence of something alive and the way Edwards broke it out is something like this. He says, well, what happens is you may have understood it before but in two ways, it changes. When you're born again, the first thing is you may have understood this before, you may have even believed it before but it wasn't beautiful. Edwards says, when a Christian gets into the presence of the scripture, there's a divine and supernatural light that's experienced. I mean, you look at it and you say, I believe that. And whenever I see somebody looking at the scripture and saying, well, I believe that, I know this, that there's not that divine and supernatural light at the moment at least because Edwards says it's one thing to just say I know it. It's another thing to contemplate it. If you contemplate it, if you seek the author and you really are born again and you've got the power and you've got the same word indwelling in you that's in the book, it'll become beautiful. Your heart will go out to it. You won't be able to get your eyes off of it. And the second thing that changes, he says, is you see the application. Before you said, I know that, but now you say, oh my gosh, if that's true, then this, then this, you see the applications, you see the implications, you see what it means to you and before you didn't. Now, that's the word. Now let me just quickly say something before I just talk about what does he mean by humbly accept? For a minute, I mean, I have to, talk about that, but for a second, some of you, I know, are going to say, well, how in the world can you talk like this about the Bible? This is, this is, look, some people are saying, modern people can't believe everything in the Bible. There's lots of it that's not historically accurate. There's lots of contradictions. The important thing is to believe in God and to live a good life, not necessarily to have to believe everything. Are you saying I have to believe everything in the Bible? I will be a Christian? No, I'm saying if you're a Christian, you'll believe everything in the Bible. It's not the same thing. And let me tell you, listen, it's not the same thing and I'll tell you why. You may believe in God and be a pretty nice person without a complete trustworthiness, a holding of complete trustworthiness. See, to humbly accept the word, to accept it means to believe it. And, and, if you don't believe it and if you can't accept it in its entirety, here's what you got. You can believe in God but you can't know him. You can't have a personal relationship with him. Yeah, do you remember the movie The Stepford Wives? Don't you remember that movie? Yeah, pretty interesting movie, isn't it? It's about men in, I guess, it's somewhere in New England, isn't it? Didn't happen in New York, of course. It was somewhere in New England and a bunch of men, what they do, I think, is they kill their wives and they have robots made, identical robots, so nobody knows, but the robots are perfectly compliant. Remember that? All they ever do is they serve their husbands and they never say anything but, yes, dear, and they bat their eyelashes. That's the Stepford Wives. Now, listen, when somebody says, you can't believe everything in the Bible, there's many things in the Bible I just don't accept. I don't like them. I'm offended by them. I will believe the things in the Bible that I can believe and I will believe and I will reject the things in the Bible I want to reject. If you have a view of the Bible like that, what I want to know is how can God ever contradict you? How can God ever argue with you? How can God ever come after you and revise you? How can you ever humble yourself under the Word of God? And you see, if you've got a God who only tells you what you think is all right, if God never offends you, never upsets you, never contradicts you, never crosses your will, you don't have a living God. You've got a God you created. You don't have a personal relationship with God. You've got a Stepford God. You've got a God

who always bats his eyelashes at you and says, yes, dear. There's a lot of things in the Bible that you're not going to like. But let me tell you something. You can't have a living... See, this is the idea. If you don't humbly accept it, you can't have an organic relationship with a God who's alive, a living God, a God who can argue with you. I don't have a marriage in which I have a wife who always bats her eyes and says, yes, dear. Not at all. But I have got a living relationship. I have got a real relationship. Listen, you can't have a relationship with a robot. You can have... There's no... Storminess in the relationship. There's never a fight. There's no problems. Never any weeping or gnashing of teeth. But you don't have a personal relationship. I tell you something. If you can't humbly accept the word, you can't have a living relationship. But you see, Christians are people who know God's alive and as a result, the Bible surprises them. The way that you let the Bible surprise you, you sense that sometimes you'll be after it and it'll come after you and grab you and take hold of you and you say, oh my God, it's a... Gosh, it's a... It's a presence. It's a living presence. So in order to humbly accept it, you've got to believe it. But then lastly, in order to humbly accept it, you've got to humble yourself. Now, I will actually get back and not next Sunday night but because we're going to have our great open forum and I sure hope you bring friends and come out. It's going to be great. So we're going to have to wait until two weeks from tonight and I'd like to, you know, kind of go back and show what this teaches us about anger. One of the things you've got to understand here, he's saying, is if you want to have the word of God bring you into a deeper fellowship with God and therefore invigorate the new life within you, you have to develop a humble spirit. And what's interesting, look, he says, be quick to listen, slow to speak, slow to become angry for man's anger does not bring about the righteousness of God. Rather, get rid of all moral filth, and the evil that's so prevalent and humbly accept the word planted in you which can save you. Well now, what's the first verse have to do with the second verse? It's simply this. God says, you cannot be controlling of other people, never listening, always telling them what's wrong with them, never open and receptive. You can't be out in the world like that and then get to the word of God and get humble and receptive. You've got to have an entirely humble spirit. The thing we'll go back to later on is, if you notice, the opposite of anger is not self-control. It's humility. If you've got a problem with anger, it's because you don't have the humility. But now, if you humbly come to the word of God, you'll be able to study it and see all kinds of great stuff in it and it'll invigorate your new life. Well, you say, what do you mean humbly? Well, for example, when you come to a text, if you read it, you put in ten minutes and you say, okay, now I know it. No lights went off, no bells went off. Be more humble. There's all kinds of radioactive material in there and you've just been too dense to see it. A Christian is somebody who says, this is living, this is alive. If it's not grabbing me, if it's not moving me, if it's not disturbing me, if it's not working on me, it's my fault. That's humble. Not like, oh gosh, you know, there's a lot of strange things here in this book. You know, I don't like that. Or even moving along and saying, well, I've read and read and nothing seems to jump out at me. Maybe I'll try another book of the Bible. Look, in a limited way, you cannot always live on spiritual highs. Sometimes you have 15 minutes in the morning to read the Bible and you read it in 15 minutes and nothing happened. And you said, okay, I read it. That's fine. You read it. You did it. You accepted it. Okay? But unless you humble yourself before it, you're not going to get out of what you ought to. You're not going to meditate. You're not going to chew. You're not going to reflect. You're not going to get into it. And that's the most important thing you can possibly do. You've got to search it. And it takes humility to search it. It takes humility to go over. I knew a minister who used to read the text of Scripture he was going to teach on 50 times before he even started to write anything about it. 50 times. It would take an hour or two. And he says, usually around the 30th or the 40th time, everything began to open up. Do you have that kind of humility? See, it takes humility to search the Scripture. But then lastly, it takes humility to let the Scripture search you. To let the Scripture come in and revise you. To let the Scripture come in and knock you around. You know, proud people

are always unhappy. You know why? Humble people come and say, well, you know, my life isn't going the way it ought to go. But who knows? I guess, you know, I guess this is God dealing with me. I guess this is God teaching me. A humble person finds your life gone screwy, getting pretty upset, right? What do you do if you're humble? You sit down with the Word of God and you say, Lord, you must be teaching me something. I don't know. I must need this. There must be some reason for it. You must be trying to teach me. Show me. A proud person gets angry. You know why you get angry? Because you think you know exactly how your life should go. You think you know exactly what ought to happen. That's the reason why you're angry. You're not listening to him. A person who doesn't listen is proud. A person who doesn't listen is angry. A person who doesn't listen is always upset with the way your life is going because you don't really come and say to him, I guess I must need to be learning. You can be unhappy or you can humbly accept the Word of God. You can be filled with self-pity or you can humbly accept the Word of God. You don't want a God who always says, yes, dear. You want a living God. You want a stormy but real personal relationship with him. As we go to the Lord's Supper, just remember this. On the road to Emmaus, do you remember there were two disciples that thought Jesus was dead. They didn't really believe the stories about his resurrection. And you know what he did to them? He sat down and he opened a scripture to them and he said, oh, slow and foolish of heart. Oh, foolish and slow to believe all the things the prophets have said. Don't you know the whole Word of God, he says, don't you know all the prophets have said was all about Jesus, the Messiah? And it says he opened the scripture to them and he showed them that every part of it was about Jesus. That the Bible is a love letter. It's from your Lord. I can, you know, Kathy and I always noticed even though we don't like children, when our kids were little, even if you heard a whole slew of little babies crying, we could always pick out our son's cry. You could always pick out, you can always pick out your kid's cry. A Christian is somebody who reads the Bible and you can pick out the voice of the one you love. Their hearts burned within them and then he broke bread and he vanished. They said, didn't our hearts burn within us as he opened the scripture to us? Look at the one about whom the scripture is. That's the reason why he's able to save you. Okay? And say, Lord, I want a personal relationship with you. Lord's Supper is about letting God revise you. It's about confession. Have a living relationship with a God who is not a Stepford God, but a God who is a living God. Let's pray. Father, help us now as we go to your table to truly meet with you. We're going to repent because your word tells us where to repent. Let us let you revise us and help us to connect with the living presence that is there within the great pages of your word because it's been implanted in us as well. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.
