The main source in the world of honesty and of self-control and of generosity. It's the main source. But moral reformation is essentially a negative thing. It's the restraining of the heart. It's the curbing of the heart. It's the putting the heart on the leash, saying, this far, no further. And it's the restraining and the curbing of the heart out of self-interest or out of fear or out of pride. That's moral reformation. but spiritual transformation is not a change in the behavior by the restraining of the heart. It's a change of the heart. It's a change of the deep habits of the heart. It's a change all the way to the bottom. We've said moral reformation comes from looking at rules, looking at the laws primarily. But when Paul, the apostle, in Galatians chapter 5, makes a list of the fruits of the Spirit, excuse me, the fruit of the Spirit, the character qualities of love, joy, peace, patience, generosity, integrity, courage, humility, self-control. And then he says, after listening to him, he says, against such there is no law. And what he means by that is laws can only restrain the heart. They can't change the heart. Spiritual transformation does not come mainly by looking at the rules. According to the Bible, spiritual transformation comes like this, 2 Corinthians unveiled faces contemplate his glory, Jesus, and are being changed from one degree of splendor to the next. And that's why every week we're looking at the love of Jesus, the love of Jesus, the joy of Jesus, the peace of Jesus, and not as models for our character, though of course they are, but it's the character of Jesus who is not just a model for our character change. In fact, they can't. We'll see this here at the end of the sermon. But it's the cause. Jesus' character is actually the cause. Spiritual transformation is not moral reformation. Through the power of the Spirit, Jesus' character is the cause of deep changes in our heart. Now, today we come to a trait. What trait? What quality? What character quality? And I won't tell you just off. Let's just put it this way. It's very clear from the narrative that we just read. This famous passage on the account of Jesus Christ praying the night before, just before his betrayal, the night before his crucifixion in the Garden of Gethsemane, we see a contrast. Jesus in prayer, Jesus vividly contrasted with the disciples. What do we see about the disciples? Well, take a look here in verses 37 to 40, we especially are given a sight. He returned to his disciples found them sleeping. Couldn't you keep watch one hour? Watch and pray. The spirit is willing, but the body is weak. Once again, he went away and prayed the same thing. He came back, he found them sleeping again. Now, what's going on here? What we are doing, first of all, on the surface, what we're seeing is a failure of behavior. He asked them to pray and watch. Stay awake and pray with me. And they didn't. Now, they agreed three times. We don't have the actual words of their agreement, but it's clear that every time he asked them, they agreed. Otherwise, look at verse 40. They didn't know what to say. They were ashamed because they agreed three times, but they failed. But the failure is not just a failure of behavior, it's a failure of character. Where they are failing is in two, I'm going to put them together today, but there's two of the words, two of the traits in that list of the fruit of the Spirit. In the old translations, translations, the King James Bible, if you go to Galatians 5 and you see the list of the fruit of the Spirit, they are goodness and faithfulness. But I would say, suggest that a better translation would be integrity and fidelity. Now, what is integrity and fidelity or faithfulness? What are these two things? What they are is maintaining under pressure and not splitting apart. Put positively, integrity is being the same on the outside as the inside, right? Not only what you say is what you do, it's being the same with one group as another group. Not, yes, Jesus, when you're here, and then something else when he's gone and not looking. Not, yes, the spirit, but in the actual behavior with the body, not doing it. integrity means they can't keep their body and their soul together this is willing, this is not now faithfulness is like integrity only in particular faithfulness has to do more with relationship faithfulness is keeping your past and your present together a fair weather friend is somebody who's there sometimes and not other times there's no unity, there's no wholeness there's no coherence integrity and faithfulness mean I'm there in plenty and in want, in joy and in sorrow, in sickness and in health, tomorrow and today as yesterday. Integrity, faithfulness. Now, the problem is that we, as he says here, the Spirit is willing. We all want this. We want to be people of integrity. We want to be people of faithfulness. We don't want to be fair-weather friends. We want to say what we mean and mean what we say. We want to say something and follow through. But pressure comes and we split. Now, what was the pressure on the disciples? Just for a minute, you have to sit back and think. Mark doesn't really tell us. He tells us how very really tired they were. But it's in Luke that we actually see. Luke actually says they were tired because they were exhausted from sorrow. And it wasn't until I was meditating on this and I stood back and thought about what's going on in the disciples' hearts that I realized the pressure they were under. Now, will you think with me?

They had based all their hopes and dreams on Jesus being the one who would deliver Israel. Remember the disciples on the road to Emmaus? We thought he was the one that would deliver Israel. And yet, some weeks now, everything's fallen apart. heart. First of all, their master decides to go to Jerusalem in spite of their pleas, knowing that the people who have the power and the most desire to kill him are there. Then on Palm Sunday, he deliberately solicits the crowd, the multitude, to call him king, and yet refused to ride in with an army or a war horse, but on a donkey. And what is he doing? He's forcing the hands. He's He's basically saying to people, he's forcing the hands of their enemies. He's basically saying, crown me or kill me. And then, of course, he goes to the temple and he cleanses the temple and he attacks the very sacrificial system. What's going on? They see the man on whom they have based everything committing suicide and not being able to give them any coherent explanation for it. All week he's talking about someone will forsake me, someone will betray me, someone will deny me. and now as we will see here in a second as he walks into the garden they can see their master utterly crushed absolutely crushed no hope everything is falling apart now when Jesus asked them you have to keep that in mind and you have to realize what Jesus is saying Jesus is saying I want you to pray and to go to God when you feel abandoned by God when you feel like all your hopes have been dashed. To go to God when there is absolutely no hope and no explanation, you're utterly confused. To go to God at a time like that would be tremendously agonizing. And Jesus says, I want you to stand with me and pray the prayer of agony.

He's essentially saying, I know how you feel. I feel abandoned. I feel without hope. I feel like I'm facing something I can't bear. I want you to stay awake and pray. And what do they say? Yes, until he's not looking. And then they slough off. Jesus Christ, of course,

was under much more, as we're going to see, but he stood. You see, faithfulness, integrity, is like a rock on the seashore, and down crashes the ocean, and doesn't matter what, it's still there. is still there.

But these disciples did not respond with integrity or with fidelity. Now, before we go to Jesus and see the contrast, can't you see why Mark is showing us this, why the writer is showing us this? This is us. Do you not see it? Think about, first of all, think about your lack of faithfulness, Think of all the times you've said to people you would do things and you didn't. In fact, I want you to say... The opposite of integrity is hypocrisy. The opposite of integrity is phoniness. The opposite of integrity is to say one thing but basically you're something else. And you know what? I would say that we're a lot like them. If you take the time, which I have done this morning, and I think about all of the times I have failed to follow through, all the things I said I would do for people, would do for me, all the resolutions of change, and how many I haven't fallen through on. And I must realize, I realize this, and I hope you will realize too, that I probably can't even remember a tenth of them because they're so painful. I repress most of them, and I think you probably do too. But you know what? The disciples, we're the worst kind of phonies. They're not evil phonies. They didn't say when Jesus says, would you please stay awake and pray with me? They didn't say, yes, master, and then under their breath say, ha, as soon as to sleep. They weren't evil phonies. I'll tell you how phony they were. They even fulfilled themselves. They didn't even know themselves. They didn't just make this promise to Jesus. They made the promise to themselves. They didn't even know what phonies they were. I mean, they were stupid phonies. They were such hypocrites that they were even hypocritical to themselves. That's how most of us are. Think of your lack of fidelity, but most of all, Think of your lack of integrity. It doesn't take much pressure. I keep telling you about my sins. Eventually, you'll just start going to some other church. But let me give you an example.

One of the things that irritates my wife very much is we'll sit around and she'll say, what do you think about this? And I'll say something very strong. Oh, I don't like that. Or I do like that. Or I'll say something very strong. And then the next day, we'll be in a group. And the subject will come up. And Kathy will say, well, we feel like this. The next thing you know, she sees, to her heart, me backpedaling and qualifying. Well, I don't know. Some people say that. Why? Because I'm in front of a group of people, and I'm afraid of what they think. I don't know what they think. Some of these people, I think, kind of think like that, and I wouldn't want to do that. Next thing you know, what's going on? You see, the Tim Keller of yesterday is not the Tim Keller of today. There's a split under the pressure,

under the pressure of just approval. I'm split, you see. But let's go further on this. when nobody's looking, are you the same as when everybody's looking? Are there things you do in the dark you would never ever want to see out in the light?

You see, Jesus is looking. Yes, Lord, Jesus walks away. Something else, somebody else, something else. Don't you see our own lack of integrity? Don't you see our own lack of fidelity?

And you know, it's

one of the weirdest things about modern people, and especially about people in New York, is what I'm continually hearing is this. People say, oh yeah, keeping promises, keeping commitments, staying with it. Well, I can't because I have to find myself. I got to find myself. Yes, I made a promise to that. I know I made that commitment. But you see, that's different. I have to find myself. I've got to be me. I've got to find who I am. and I must do that. This is the modern idea. I must be able to find who I am and to follow my desires and to resonate with my deepest feelings despite commitments, despite obligations, despite any encumbrances at all. Hannah Arendt, Louis Smedes, two utterly different people. Hannah Arendt, of course, is a Jewish philosopher. Louis Smedes is a Dutch-American aging theologian. Without being bound to the fulfillment of our promises, we would never be able to keep our identity. We'd be condemned to wander helplessly without direction in the darkness of each person's heart, caught in all of the heart's contradictions and equivocalities. And Louis Smead says, My wife has been married to five different men. Every one has been me. But the connecting link that bound each of those men into an integrated whole was the promise, I am he who will be there with you. If I ever shed that name, I'd never find myself again, and the bond that connects us would break as well. Don't you see, Hannah Arendt understands, Lewis means understand. When you say, and this is rife, this is typical, this is a trend. When you say, I have to find myself, therefore I can't keep my promises and my commitments. I've got to change, you know, I've got to do it. well, what? What's going on? Hannah Arendt says, you've got all kinds of deep desires down inside you. Equally deep desires and they're contradictory. Filled with contradictions and equivocalities and every one of them wants selfness. Every one of them says, I'm your real self. The other one says, I'm your real self. And she says, you will never have a real self. You will have no self at all unless you make a commitment and stick to it because who you are is your commitments or who you are is what your commitments determine that you will do and be. Without fidelity, without integrity, there is no identity. None. Now how are we going to become people like that? Everything in our culture pushes against it, and everything inside our heart pushes against it. And all the world's horses and all the world's men will not be able to put our little humpty self together again unless what? You have to be very careful here. You have to be extremely careful. We're not talking for a moment here. about whether or not you can ever break a promise. The Bible does not have the superstitious attitude of many ancient cultures toward promises.

Of course, that's silly to say you can ever break a promise. Like, once you make a promise, whoops! You know, read the story of King Herod. He made a promise to Salome. He said, I will give you anything, up to half of my kingdom. And Salome says, I would like the head of John the Baptist. And he would have been a man of greater integrity if he had broken that promise. It was because of his fear. around him. You see, it was a man, it was a lack of integrity that made him keep that promise. He should have broken that promise. We're not talking about the fact that you can make stupid promises and sometimes you need to break them. In order to be people of integrity, we're talking about integrity itself. We're talking about fidelity itself. I know I don't keep my promises even to me. And I know you don't keep your promises even to you. I'm a pastor and you tell me. what are we going to do

in Man for All Seasons Robert Bolt has Thomas More talking to his daughter and where Thomas More is going to go to the stake he's going to die unless he recants unless he goes back on a promise and his daughter Meg says oh please

recant and what does he say he says when a man makes an oath Meg he holds his own self like water, and if he opens his fingers, he needn't hope to find himself again. And in this modern world, especially in New York City, one of the reasons a lot of us don't, we're trying to find an identity, and we can't know who we are. You know one of the reasons why? It's not looking inside at all of our contradictions and equivocalities. The reason we've got the problem is we've opened our fingers now. Now, how are we going to change? What's going to put us together? What's going to make us people of integrity and of fidelity? Now, here's the answer. Jesus. But not just as a model, as a cause. First, let's look at him as a model, though. We have to see what he did, and then we'll see how that applies, all right? First, we have to look at him as a model. clearly, in this narrative, contrasted with the infidelity of the disciples is the fidelity of Jesus. And we especially see it here in the very beginning. And what do we see? We see incredible pressure, first of all. Unbelievable pressure. Far greater than the disciples. Far greater than what people will think. Far greater than the pressure that puts us. You make promises and yet we're doing things in the dark. Why? Because of a need for pleasure. Because of a need for approval. Because of a need for power. you see, because of a need for comfort. But what was the pressure on him? Here's first of all, we see, look, very, very fascinating and astounding even. He says, he went to a place called Gethsemane. He took Peter, James, and John. And it says, verse 33, he took Peter, James, John along with him, and he began to be deeply distressed and troubled. My soul was overwhelmed with sorrow to the point of death, he said, stay here and keep watch. Going a little farther, he fell to the ground, prayed if possible the hour might pass from him. Abba, Father, he said, everything is possible for you. Take this cup from me. Now, one thing that people have always noticed throughout history is how badly Jesus died. You not notice that? If you read the history of the church, you'll see people dying beautifully all the time. Polycarp was the bishop of Smyrna. He was a martyr in the very famous. He was up in front of his executioner and he was at his trial and the magistrate said, I can have you burned. And you know what happened? Polycarp looks at the guy and he says, the fire you speak of lasts but an hour and is quenched with a little. But what do you know of the fire of judgment? So come, why delay? Do what you will. Poise, Calm. He says, fire. What kind of fire is this? Give me a fire. Listen, I can give you story after story, not just of Christians, but of plenty of people who aren't Christians too. Dying with a plum. Dying with panache. Dying with peace. Dying with poise. Dying with calm. Dying with confidence. Dying with... The Christians sang as they were sent to the lions. They sang. Where is the song? What is Jesus doing? And if we look carefully, we'll see there is no peace here. Absolutely not. Let's go even further. I feel like people are unwilling to even see the implications of what he says. First of all, it says, he began to be deeply troubled and distressed. See that? Very unfortunate translation. The new translation that we have there for you is not as good as the old translation. The old King James, it says, he was sore amazed. Now listen, do you know what the implications are? He was astounded. Something astounded the Son of God. God. The best translation is he was filled with horror. You want to know something about what he was feeling? Just a little bit? Imagine yourself turning a corner and seeing someone you love dearly with all your heart, who you just talked to last night on the phone, lying dead and mutilated, being eaten by a wild animal. How would you feel? Horror? Nausea? Fear? Shock? Astonishment? judgment, your fear coming up to suffocate you like a cloud, choking. Something utterly shocked the Son of God. What could shock the Son of God? And then secondly, it says, he says, my soul is overwhelmed to the point of death. He does not say here, I'm on the verge of being overwhelmed. I'm almost overwhelmed. He says, I'm out. He says, I'm crushed. He says, I'm dying. And the most amazing thing of all, it says, it came upon him suddenly. It began. Now, what's going on? There's three words that tell you. Word number one, the cup. Let this cup pass from me. This is the Old Testament metaphor for the wrath of God against evil. Now, right away, a lot of you are here, and you're saying, oh my word, you know, I thought this church might be different. Wrath of God. I want a loving ain't a loving God. But listen, my dear friends. Think about this for a second. When you read of atrocities. Last week for the evening's talk, I had to read some books on slavery. The African slave trade. When you read about atrocities. When you read about cruelty. When you read about injustice. Or when you see it or you get near one. What do you feel? What is it? You can't help yourself. What is it? Outrage. Is that a sign that you're bad? No. The more loving. The more kind. The more sensitive. The heart. age there is, at cruelty and injustice. What is that? It's because we're made in the image of God. And in God, without our prejudices that we have with us, without the lack of symmetry, in God, the only hope of the universe dwells. What is that? He is mad at evil. You've got the same thing in you. The wrath of God. And we're told that Jesus talked about the What's the cup? That's the reason why in the Old Testament we have words like this. You have the place, for example, in Ezekiel. Here's a place in Ezekiel, here's a place in Isaiah. You will drink a cup large and deep, full of ruin and desolation, and you will tear your breasts.

You will drink the cup of his fury, says Isaiah 54, and you'll stagger.

Something is coming way beyond physical death. The reason that Jesus Christ did not face death the way Polycarp or anybody else did was because he was facing a death that was infinitely, radically, qualitatively different. Far more terrible than anyone ever has or ever will again. The cup. What is the cup? The wrath of God. But let's go further. Look at the second of the three words. I want to show you three words. Second word, Abba. Now here we go. That is the Aramaic diminutive form for a child talking to his father. The closest you got to it, it actually sounds like it, does it? Papa.

Now, even in the smallest increments, we learn this about sin. Sin makes you lonely. If you hold a grudge, it alienates you. It makes you lonely because not only are you alienated from the person you're angry at, doesn't share that anger. If you tell a lie, even a little lie, you suddenly, there's a barrier, the walls are up, now you have to watch what you say. You can't just let your hair down, you just can't open your heart up. Sin, even in the tiniest increments, makes you lonely, it cuts you off. And that is writ tiny, the ultimate result of sin. Do you know what sin is? Sin is just your willingness to say, I want to be my own boss, I want to be my own savior, I want to be my own Lord. And what that means is every day, every hour, we are saying to God, get out of my life. And someday, if we maintain that, God, in an act of consummate fairness and justice, will do it. Because sin cuts us off, and the wages of sin is to be cut off from God himself.

Only in God does the image of God in us, what is the image of God in us? Does the image of us work. We were built like God to relate, to love, to enjoy, to create. And when we actually are cut off from God, if we ever were cut off from God, we will stop being able to function in our humanity. We won't be able to love. We won't be able to think. We won't be able to create. We won't be able to delight. We'll be total. If we ever get what every single moment every person on the face of the earth is asking for in their heart and by their actions, happen. You say, well, aren't a lot of people cut off from God now? They don't believe in God? Dear friends, if you were born underground and you lived all your life in a cave and it was always 45 degrees and somebody told you about the sun, you say, I've never seen the sun. I don't even believe in the sun. But if the sun actually were to go out, you would be instantly turned to stone. The only reason your cave is 45 degrees and livable is because of the sun that you don't believe in. And even if you go away from him. Here, we don't know what it's like to be cut off from God. To be cut off from God, they call hell. But,

this one who Jesus is about to lose, who Jesus is about to be cut off from, is not his creator.

If we are ever to lose our creator, to be cut off from our creator, it's hell.

Absolute torment.

But this was not his creator that he is about to get cut off from. This is Papa. His relationship with God is so much infinitely more intimate than ours ever could be. He came from a heaven infinitely and unimaginably higher than anybody else could ever experience heaven, and therefore he's going to go to a hell infinitely greater than anybody else in here could ever experience. Imagine the difference between how much you love your spouse or your children or your best friend compared to how much you love somebody you just met today.

The pain of rejection of a person you just met, the pain of rejection of somebody you've known for years and years, infinitely greater. But with God, with the Father and the Son who have known each other, the Son's been in the bosom of the Father from all eternity. joy and delight, oceans of it, into each other from all eternity. And at this point, Jesus Christ is going to be cut off. And this is the reason. You know, our time-bound little minds sometimes say, well, wait a minute. Jesus didn't go to hell for eternity. He only suffered for three hours. Stop it. Jesus Christ experienced a longer eternity in hell than anybody ever could because he came from the most unimaginably higher relationship. Therefore, he went into a deeper hell. But the third word, the cup, Abba, he's cut off from his father, cut off from not just creator, the father, Papa, but began. The word began means, extremely important, the word began means that Jesus Christ up to now, why was he surprised? Up to now, he knew about this. Theoretically, he knew it in principle. But you cannot escape it. How could the Son of God be astonished? How could it say he began? I'll tell you what happened. God has let Jesus begin to experience it. It's going to come to its fruition on the cross. But for the first time, Jesus begins to experience it. One great commentator on the Gospel of Mark puts it this way. He says, It says, the dreadful sorrow and anxiety out of which this prayer for the passing of the cup springs is not merely an expression of fear before a dark destiny, but the horror of one who lives wholly for the Father and who came to be with the Father for an interlude before betrayal and found hell rather than heaven open before him. Do you hear it? The commentator's right, I think. He says, all of his life, whenever Jesus turned in prayer, he got heaven, he got back, he got glory. and for the first time in his life he turns in prayer he opens his heart and there's nothing but darkness he's begun to hear the judgment he's begun to hear in his soul something along the lines of what the Bible says happens on judgment day he's begun to hear something on the lines of the words depart from me ye cursed from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his presence depart part. The cup has come down in front of him, and he sees the flames. He can smell it for the first time. He's beginning to taste it for the first time. He's seeing the furnace into which he's about to be cast, and he tore at his breast, and he staggered. For the first time, he's starting to experience the very wrath of God, this is the pressure on him. And what does he do? How does he respond? First of all, he responds with integrity, and secondly, with fidelity. Here's what integrity means. The amazing thing about the Garden of Gethsemane, why would God do this? Why would God actually let him feel this before the cross? Why would he be so astounded? Why would this begin? I'll tell you why. When he's on the cross, he's nailed. When he's on the cross, he's surrounded. But here, look, the disciples are asleep. The betrayer and the soldiers are not there. He is utterly alone in the dark, and God actually gives him a taste. So for the first time, he senses the immediacy of what he's going to go through. This is the point of no return. turn. See, the father puts the cup down in front of him practically and swirls it around and says, son, this is the cup. This is the thing. If you don't take it, they will perish. But if you do take it, no one has ever experienced what you're going to experience. Are you ready? You can leave.

You're in the dark. You're alone. own. But he said, I'll go. Incredible integrity. And secondly, incredible fidelity. And what amazes me about this is it's almost like God, look, God almost rubs his nose in the unworthiness and the stupidity of the people he's going to die for. First of all, he shows us, us, looking like we really are. We don't know what you're doing, Jesus, and we don't care. They heard the beginning of the prayer, and they don't care. They go to sleep. And so they fall down, and they fall asleep. And then the Father comes down and says, I want you to taste this. Are you ready to do it for them? And Jonathan Edwards, in his great sermon, Christ's Agony, he puts it this way. He says, the greatest act of fidelity in the history of the world, in the history of the universe, happened happen. When Jesus Christ looked at those men falling asleep on him, and he said this, why should I, infinitely greater than all the angels of heaven and all the kings of the earth, why should I take this burning agony into my heart and soul, cast myself into this eternal furnace for those who will never repay me or profit me when I owe it, who cannot even stay awake with me one hour in a time of greatest need? Why should I give an eternity in unimaginable torment when they will not even give me a few minutes of their attention? And he didn't. He didn't say it.

He didn't say it. He was true to us. Why? Well, you say, because of the will of the Father. Okay, well, why did the Father want to do? Listen, have you ever sat with somebody you love with all your being and watched them die? Who's suffering more? more. The suffering is in two totally different currencies, but nobody will argue that one is suffering more. This is not just the son's cup. This is the father's cup too. I should say, why didn't, why did they drink it? What possible reason could they have to drink it? There's only one, only one, only one. They loved us. They were true to us. They forgave us. They had absolute atomic bombs proof strength love for us. That in spite of how unfaithful we were to them, they were faithful to us. Do you know what you're seeing?

Remember Jonah, he's in the whale and he says, all thy waves and thy billows have gone over me, but I will look to thy temple, but a greater than Jonah is here. Because Jonah was just under an ocean of water wrath, and it has no bottom to his suffering, and he still obeyed. Do you remember Jacob?

Jacob wrestled. He showed a lot of faith because he held on to God, and he wouldn't let God go till God blessed him. But here, a greater than Jacob is here because he holds on to God, and he does not let God go. He is faithful to God, and he prays to God, and he obeys God. Even though he knows at the very end he's going to be cursed. A greater than Jacob. Jacob obeyed by painfully blessing. And Jesus painfully struggled, even though he knew he was going to get a curse.

Now, how can we be like this? The answer is very simple. Don't you see the answer? The answer is very simple. If you say, he's my model, I'm going to be just like him. It won't be long before you will be, you'll say, I can't do this. That is not a good thing to do. What you have to do is hinted at the very end two things. Number one, Jesus says, let me tell you what's going on. Look. Look and see I'm about to be betrayed. They didn't understand. You have to realize they listened to the first part of the prayer. How do you think they knew it? How could they have written it down? How could Mark have known it? They listened to the first part of the prayer and they didn't get it. Now, what I'm saying to you is, unless you look at what Jesus Christ you until you get it. You'll never be like him. Look, for example, if you just see him as a model of prayer, if you say, I need to pray no matter how bad it gets. Look at Jesus. Three times he gets turned down. Three times and he keeps praying over and over and over. I'm going to be a model of that kind of submission and I'm going to be a model of that kind of faithfulness and prayer. You'll never do it. But you know what you have to do? You have to look at and realize the reason that I can come in prayer and know I will always be welcomed is because I will never go through what Jesus went through. Jesus Christ prayed a prayer with all of his heart and was ignored.

Nobody's ever done...that's never happened to anybody. Jesus Christ opened his heart in prayer and got hell. The reason I know that when I come to the Father in the name of Jesus Christ, my prayer galvanizes heaven is because he got hell his prayer. I will get heaven for my prayer. I'll get heaven's attention. I will get heaven's welcome. Absolutely. Because Jesus Christ was ignored. Now, until I see that he said, I'm willing to lose my very self. I'm willing to take this incredible agony into my heart. I'm willing to have this kind of hell prayer so they can have a heaven prayer. Until you see that, you'll never be relentless in prayer. And if you do see that, to the degree you see that, to the degree you're melted by that, you will be faithful in prayer. Or look at his obedience. Look at his obedience. Do you know what's going on? Jesus Christ, who was perfectly obedient, acted. You know, he was obedient, okay? And he acted in complete accordance with the law of God and with the promises. He was completely obedient, but he was treated as disobedient.

In fact, let me go, let me, do you know what the theological point of this is? Centuries ago, in a garden long ago, there was a Garden of Joy, and God put a man into that garden, and he said, Obey and live. His name was Adam. Obey and I'll bless you. And he didn't. And ever since then, God, in our conscience, has come to every son of Adam and daughter of Eve in a secondary way, and has said, Obey and I'll bless you. And we don't. God comes to Jesus Christ in this Garden, a Garden of Sorrow, the second Adam. and he comes and says something to him. He's never said anybody before or since. He says, obey me. Obey this rule and I will crush you. He says to the rest of us, obey and I will bless you and we don't. And he said to Jesus Christ, obey and I will crush you to powder and he did for love for us. And this is the gospel. The gospel is not Jesus was obedient. I'm going to try real hard to be obedient. No. The gospel is seeing that if Jesus Christ, though he was obedient, when I believe in him. I don't get an example from him, though I do. I get something. I get a record.

What does 2 Corinthians 5.21 mean? God made him sin who knew no sin that we might become the righteousness of God in him. That means if you see and are melted by what Jesus has done for you, if you see that the only hope you have to come to the Father is to say, not for my merits, but for his merits, not because of what I've done, because of what he has done. If you see him being treated as disobedient he's absolutely obedient, then when you receive Christ from now on, though you're disobedient, you'll be treated as obedient. That's what it means to be a Christian. And when you see that, then you'll change. You'll only change when that happens. Do you know why you say, well, I know I promised, I know I promised my wife not to have sex with anybody else, but I'm having sex with somebody, you say, because she makes me feel so good. And I know the Bible says it's wrong and I try my best but I just can't seem to stop it. You're not looking at Jesus. That woman that makes you feel so good, she may be a wonderful person but she has never died in the dark for you. She's never gone to hell for you. Nobody has. Your career, approval of people, whatever it is that's putting pressure on you in order, that's making you person who lacks integrity or fidelity, that pressure will only come off when you see what he's done for you. When you say, how in the world? If he died in the dark for me, I'm going to live in the light for him. If he did this for me, how in the world could I treat him as if anything is more important than him? That's all that matters. I don't care. Tim Keller has to say, I don't care what these people say. I need to be a person of integrity. Why? Because in God's eyes, though I'm disobedient, though I'm weak, He loves me. He sees me as utterly obedient. He sees me as having done the stuff that Jesus Christ did. And when you see what Jesus Christ did for you, you see a matchless beauty. And that's what Jesus sees, God sees when he sees you in him. And until you've let that hit you, until you've let that sink to the bottom, until you live loved. If there's anybody here who says, The reason I'm acting this way is I just feel worthless. Jesus Christ, do you think you could do anything to break his grip on you if hell itself couldn't? Do you think you have done something to shoot holes in the love of Jesus Christ for you if hell couldn't do it, if this couldn't do it? Get real. Be people of integrity.

Be people of integrity. Make promises to him because of his promise that he kept. He held fulfilled himself together. Not my will. Thine be done. In his human nature, he was shrinking back, but through a promise, he kept himself together. You can be like that, but not by trying to be like him. Not directly. By seeing what he's done for you. You can be people of integrity. You can be people of fidelity. You can also forgive people who are falling asleep on you. Is there anybody who's fallen asleep on you and you're out of greatest need? And are you ready to cut them off? How dare you? How dare we? Look what he's done. People who've been faithless to you, be faithful to them. For his mercies, they endure. Ever faithful, ever sure. Let's pray. Father, as we go to you, we ask that you would make us like your son. We will try to be people of integrity, but first we will see what it cost him so that we could become that. We pray that you would grant this. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.
