Tonight's scripture comes from James chapter 4 verses 13 through chapter 5 verse 6.

Come now, you who say, today or tomorrow we will go into such and such a town and spend a year there and trade and make a profit, yet you do not know what tomorrow will bring. What is your life? For you are a mist that appears for a little time and then vanishes. Instead, you ought to say, if the Lord wills, we will live and do this or that. As it is, you boast in your arrogance. All such boasting is evil. So whoever knows the right thing to do and fails to do it, for him it is a sin. Come now, you rich, weep and howl for the miseries that are coming upon you. Your riches have rotted and your garments are moth-eaten. Your gold and silver have corroded and their corrosion, will be evidenced against you and will eat your flesh like fire. You have laid up treasure in the last days. Behold, the wages of the laborers who mowed your fields, which you kept back by fraud, are crying out against you. And the cries of the harvesters have reached the ears of the Lord of hosts. You have lived on the earth in luxury and in self-indulgence. You have fattened your hearts in a day of slaughter. You have condemned and murdered the righteous person. He does not resist you. This is the word of the Lord.

So we're looking at the book of James, which is a book that asks and answers this question. If you really believed the gospel of Jesus, if you really believed what Jesus said he came to do, what would that mean for the way in which you live your life every day? What does that look like on the ground? What practically does that look like? And every single week we're looking at another part of the text. We're going through the book of James in which he's showing us how belief in the gospel affects the way we actually live day to day. And here tonight in this text, to understand his topic, you have to recognize the importance of these two challenges because that's what they are. The beginning of 4.13 and the beginning of 5.1, where he says, Come now, you. Come now, you. And this is... These are ancient... Well, this is an ancient Semitic way of giving a serious rebuke. This is akin to saying, Woe unto you. I don't know what we do. I mean, if you heard somebody begin a statement saying, Look, you. You figure that whatever comes after that is not going to be pleasant. I mean, it's the beginning of a challenge. And that's what this is. This is, this is very strong language. James is rebuking a particular thing that these folks are doing. And what is that? This is a continuation of a theme that was begun in chapter 3, which is the theme of wisdom. And James is contrasting God's wisdom with the world's wisdom or with what the Bible calls foolishness. Now, when you and I use the word fool or foolishness, it's just a pejorative term. It's an insult. It doesn't have a lot of, it doesn't have a lot of content. It just means I don't like you. But in the Bible, the word fool or foolishness has very specific content. Foolishness in the Bible is culpable, culpable blindness to reality that leads to destructive choices. Foolishness is culpable blindness, being so out of touch with the way things really are that it leads to destructive choices. And there's a particular kind of foolishness that James is condemning here and warning us against. Let's look at it under four headings. What he's telling us here is about a problem that we have and the reasons it's a problem and the thing that can make the problem worse and the thing that can make the problem better or solve it. The problem, the reasons it's a problem, what can make it worse and what can make it better. First, now what is the problem? What is he condemning? And actually it's right there in the beginning. Look at verse one, I mean verse 13. Come now you who say, today or tomorrow we will go into such and such a town and spend a year there and trade and make a profit.

That's what he's condemning. Now on the surface of it, it looks like he's condemning what we would call today strategic planning.

Because this is a business plan. There's a time frame, a year. There's a revenue target, which is to become profitable in a year, which is pretty ambitious. And that's what he seems to be condemning. Now the problem is that he can't just be condemning planning because as we've mentioned before, James draws on Old Testament wisdom literature a lot and in the book of Proverbs, to not plan is foolishness. A lack of planning is foolishness. And also, there's that famous place in Luke 14 where Jesus says, he talks about a man who is building a tower, but he doesn't actually do a budget before he starts the tower. He doesn't realize he doesn't have enough money or doesn't have enough materials, doesn't have the assets to build the tower, complete the tower. And then he talks about a general who goes out to war without counting up the assets. And so Jesus in Luke 14 calls a lack of planning foolishness. And so James can't be saying what's foolishness is the planning. It's an attitude of heart around the planning that he's condemning. In particular, the key is verse 16, where he says, as it is, you boast in your arrogance. In other words, today or tomorrow, we're going to go into such and such a town and spend a year there and trade and make a profit. That plan is a boast. It's not just a plan. It's a boast.

And in the Bible, boasting is a very important theological theme. If you were with us last year when we were going through the book of Romans, especially we got to Romans chapter four, we learned there that boasting is a very important theme in the Bible. See, in ancient times, a boast was a ritual of warfare. Have you ever seen any kind of depiction, you know, whether a play or a movie or a depiction of some ancient battle? And always before, they charge the king or the leader or the captain makes a boast. You know, they get up there and they say, tomorrow we will feast inside those walls. Charge! And everybody goes, or our cavalry will cut through them like butter and charge. And everybody, and then they run. And you are laughing and I laugh

because virtually none of us have ever actually been in a battle. And here's a question. How do you get a bunch of men to charge into certain death knowing that a third of them, a quarter of them, a half of them are going to die? How do you get them excited about that? How do you get people to have the confidence to face the foe? And the answer is a boast. In ancient times, you made a boast and that got people riled up and they went out. Now, the Bible understands that is actually a spiritual category

because in, in the Bible, Jeremiah 9, God says this, very famous passage, let not the wise man boast of his wisdom. Let not the mighty man boast of his might. Let not the rich man boast of his riches. But let him who boasts, boast about this, that he understands and knows me, that I am the Lord who exercises kindness, justice, and righteousness in the earth. For in these I delight, says the Lord. God forbids people to boast in riches or might. Why? See, your boast, your boast is what gives you the confidence to face life. What is the deepest source of your confidence that enables you to get up in the morning and face life and face difficulties and charge? What do you tell yourself? What is your boast? And of course, Jeremiah, not just Jeremiah, but the whole Bible says, all of us find, we tend to boast in something besides the Lord. We find something that says, if I have that, if I do that, then I can face it. And we find our deepest source of personal confidence in something besides the Lord. Now, what James is talking about is a particular form of this. And what he is saying is that there is a, and I'll give it a name in a minute, there's a particular cast of heart that looks to your planning, looks to your due diligence, looks to your research, looks to your strategizing, looks to your management. And there's a cast of heart that says, I've done my research and I've done all my work and I've made my plans and I've thought it all out and now I'm in control of my future.

This is what we're going to call, for lack of a better term, the life control illusion. The illusion that if you do your due diligence, and if you do your planning, and if you do your strategizing, you can control your own destiny. You can control your future. And it's the opposite of a heart that says, what happens to me is basically dependent on forces beyond my control. And if there are any accomplishments and there are any comforts and there's any good things in my life, it's because of divine help.

So this is what we're going to call the life illusion, the life illusion. The life control illusion. And namely that if you, that you're planning and you're really, really hard work and you're thinking about every contingency and all of your strategizing and all of your due diligence and all of your homework and all of your thinking out, you can control your own future.

Now, what's amazing to me is that James had enough people that had this problem in his day and time that he wrote a passage on it. But it's a good thing for us and of course it's God's, you know, God put the Bible together. He knew what people needed. But it's a good thing for us because relatively speaking, there's never been a culture in which this particular form of foolishness was more prevalent. Now, you know what we are here in modern North American culture? What are you told in every popular movie? What are you told in every elementary school class practically? You're told this. You can be whatever you choose to be. Whatever you want to do, you set yourself up for it. You set your heart to it. You set your mind to it. You can be whatever you choose to be. That's the American way. That's exactly what James says here is out of touch with reality. You know, at the end of the trilogy of movies, Back to the Future, you remember how it climaxes at the very end? Remember what Professor Brown says at the end? He says to the main character, he says, quote, the future is whatever you make it. So make it a good one. And everybody goes, yeah. You know, we're all sitting there. I mean, that's why, that's why, you know, we're Americans and that's why we, you know, that's why that movie, that's why it was a best, you know, a blockbuster, you know, because at the very end, what's the message? The message is your future is whatever you make it. The future. Actually, it doesn't say your future. The future is whatever you make it. So make it a good one. Now, right now, there's a book on the market by Malcolm Gladwell. You know, he's a secular intellectual and he wrote a book called Outliers. And the book basically marshals all kinds of arguments, to show what, you know, most cultures and most social scientists and what most people, most places in the world have always known. And that is that your success is actually not under your control. I mean, the whole point of the book is to say, yes, hard work and aptitude, very important if you're going to be a success. But, he says, those are actually a small part of the whole. Because along with your hard work and success, there has to be circumstances, timing, your upbringing, your culture, and opportunities. All these things have to line up or you're not a success. Yes, hard work and aptitude are crucial. But only if all these other things line up are you a success. Because it takes all kinds of things to happen to make you a success. And you're not in control of those things. No human being is in control of those things at all.

I mean, the book, you read the book, and it's not, you know, it's not rocket science. It's just, it's partly common sense. It's partly what social scientists will tell you. It's partly what most societies will tell you. And that is, if you're a success or you're a failure, it is not mainly due to your hard work or your lack of it. It's due to all kinds of things that you have no control over. You are dependent, your success or your failure, is dependent on forces beyond your control. That's what that book's saying. That's not even the Bible. What the Bible says, it goes even further. What James says is, if you believe, and we do as Americans, it's deep in our hearts, if you believe that the future is whatever, whatever you do, whatever you make of it,

you're a fool. Or, I mean, that's not just, that's not an insult. It's a fact. The biblical fact is that you are out of touch with reality. You're out of touch with how things really work, so much so that you're going to make all kinds of destructively wrong choices in your life. So that's our problem, the life control illusion. Secondly, why is it such a problem? Why is it so out of touch with reality? Now, James gives us two reasons why this is such a huge problem and why it's such a big, why it's so dangerous. And those two things are here in verses 14 and 15. In verse 14, you know, after he says, you know, you boastfully say, today or tomorrow, we will go into such and such a town, we'll spend a year there, you know. And then he says, but you don't know what tomorrow will bring. But you don't know. All right. The first reason that the life control illusion is an illusion, it's foolishness, it's out of touch with reality, is because it's based on the assumption that it's possible for you to know enough about the future to really manage risk, to really manage everything so that you can control your future, so you can determine that your future is a good one. It assumes that you know enough about the future to do the planning. And that's just not true. For example, oh, and by the way, the reason why this is so destructive is that if you do think you can know the future well enough to control through planning your future, it leads to paradoxically both overconfidence and anxiety and underconfidence at the same time. Let me show you what I mean. First of all, it leads to overconfidence.

when all of those business models lost investors trillions of dollars in real estate,

because they claimed that they could predict risk and they couldn't, when all of that collapsed and when the whole economy practically collapsed, what did the designers of the models say? I'll tell you what they said. They said, well, you know, we had these great models, but this and that, that happened. Now, this and that has never happened before. This and that has never happened since we were keeping records. And because this and that has never happened before, how could we have known? And therefore, we couldn't have known. Our models didn't take those into consideration because we didn't think that could happen. We didn't know. That's what James is saying. You don't know. And therefore, they were overconfident. And he says, you can't know the future. And if you think you can know the future, enough to really control things and to manage risk, you're going to make really, really bad mistakes, destructively bad choices because of overconfidence. And there's Exhibit A. But ironically, this idea that you know or you think you can know enough about the future to make wise choices and all that actually creates anxiety as well. It not only creates overconfidence, it creates underconfidence. Because think about what worry is for a minute. What is worry? Worry is saying, I know how my life ought to go. I know exactly how it has to go and I'm afraid it's not going there. I know exactly what has to happen if I'm going to have the life that I should have. And I'm afraid it's not going there. That's what worry is. Worry assumes you know. Now, you know, my favorite, a good illustration, I'll bring it up again because I'm not going to do it again. A lot of you like to hear it. But I'll do it real brief. I mean, when I was in graduate school, I was dating a girl who's not Kathy, my wife now. Dating a girl. And she, I wanted to marry her and she wanted to break up with me. And I was worried. I was anxious. I got up every day feeling sick in my stomach. Is she going to break up with me? Why was I so worried? Why was I so anxious? Because I thought I knew that she was the right one. Now, why? What if I had just known James 4 well enough to say, you don't know. What makes you so sure? You don't know. And I could have said, I'm stupid. I don't know. And I wouldn't have worried so much. Your worry is based on your assurance that you know the future, that you know what should happen. You know what tomorrow ought to bring. And you don't. And, you know, both anxiety and overconfidence come from the fact that you don't know. It comes from this out-of-touch-with-reality assumption that you know enough to be able to control your future through planning and hard work, but you don't. You can't control the future. And that brings us to the second point. The first reason why this is so wrong is because, verse 14, you don't know. But the second reason why this is so bad is because of verse 15 where it says, you don't control things. Because it says, and look carefully. It's a simple statement, but the ramifications, ramifications are great. Instead, you ought to say, if the Lord wills, we will live and do this or that. You see what it's saying? Every this and every that happens only happens if the Lord wills it. Now, we're getting to a place here. He's tapping into a major theme in the Bible. And I can, let me just warn you by saying, the Bible's balance and nuance, when it comes to the Bible, when it comes to this subject, are we free or is everything fixed and determined in life? The Bible has a balance and a nuance about this subject that beyond anything you're going to find anywhere else, and therefore all of us are going to have to stretch to catch up. But it's crucial. You know what he's saying here? You know what the Bible says about this? It's most of us, well, almost all of us, deep in our, in fact, it's so deep that it's unconscious. I'm trying to make it conscious so you see it. All of us assume that, either God is in control of everything and everything that happens is part of a plan, or our choices matter. It's either or. See, most of us think, well, if everything that's going to happen will happen no matter what, if it's fixed, if it's determined, if it's going to happen no matter what, then what I do doesn't matter, whether I'm this or that or this or that, it doesn't matter. So either it's fixed and what I do does not matter, or what I do matters, and then I can make the future, the future is whatever I make it. We think it's either or. But the Bible says it's both and. And that is absolutely crucial for you to live a wise life. And if you don't understand this, you're going to be foolish in some way. How is it both and? Well, it's all through the Bible. I'll just give you one example. In Acts chapter 2, Paul is preaching, and he preaches his first sermon, and he says, God foreordained that Jesus would die on the cross.

God determined it. God foreordained it. It had to happen. It was going to happen. Jesus was going to die, come into the world and die on the cross for our sins. Foreordained. And then he says, and all of those of you who helped kill him were wicked to do so. He didn't say, well, you know, because it was foreordained, those of you who helped kill him, you couldn't help it. Besides that, that it doesn't matter was going to happen anyway. You know, if you didn't kill him, somebody else would have killed him. It really didn't matter. You know, it's going to happen. It might as well be you. You know? No. Look at this. Nor does he say, oh, yes, what you did mattered, and therefore, we were up there, all the, you know, hosts of heaven were up there biting their nails as to whether Jesus would actually die on the cross and save the world or not. It was a really good thing that you killed him. No. No. Think.

What Peter's saying, what the Bible says is, God absolutely infallibly works out his sovereign will. He's wise and he's good, though often inscrutable, and everything that happens according to his will. But all of your choices you're responsible for. No one's forcing you to make the choices you make, and you are responsible for them, and they matter, and you will be held accountable for them. It's both and. Now, unless you have these together, you don't live life wisely. You either have a tendency to say, everything is fixed, who knows, nothing I do matters, it's, you know, I just can't seem to make any difference. You become passive and indifferent, you don't care. Or you say, life control illusion. I can do it. I can make the future what I want to make it. I can be anything I want to be. And then you melt down. You freak out. You're filled with anxiety. It's up to you. It's up to you. And you know you can't bear the pressure. Why? Because you know what? You're taking the place of God, and you're unqualified for the job. And anybody in a job that they're not qualified for feels really weird.

If you're going to live wisely, you need to know what the Bible says, and that is that your choices absolutely matter. Absolutely matter. You don't have consequences to them. You're responsible for them. And yet, ultimately, you are not in control of what happens. God is. And you know, practically, I was listening to a mental health expert, an American psychiatrist, I think, clinical psychologist, psychiatrist, on the radio the other day, and he was talking about how unwise Americans are about how they understand mental health problems in other cultures. And he says, we have a tendency to think that everybody's like us. And he gave an example. He says, remember the tsunami some years ago in the Indian Ocean, and hundreds of thousands of people were killed, and people's lives were ruined, and many people from America and the West poured into that area to try to help people, and many of them came as mental health experts, saying, we're going to help you with your trauma. We know you're traumatized and upset, and we're going to help you with your trauma. and we're going to help you. Now, he says, listen, people needed sympathy. They were in grief. They needed people to weep with them. You know, you need to weep with those who weep. But he says, what Americans don't realize is almost everybody else in the world is better at dealing with suffering than Americans. And you know why? Almost everybody else in the world believes that our lives are basically dependent on forces beyond us, that life is not controllable, that things like this happen. They are reconciled to it. But Americans feel like, life should be right, and if it's not right, somebody's screwing up. Maybe you screwed up. Maybe we need to throw the bums out of office. Maybe we need to sue somebody who's not doing their job. But life should always be okay, because the life control illusion. And he says, you know what? As a result, Americans are the people in the world who are the most traumatized by suffering. Because of this illusion, they do not know how to handle it. They can't take bad things. They can't take bad things in stride. You know why? Because, James says, you don't know how to live wisely. Why? Because culpable blindness to reality that leads to destructive choices.

Now, what are we going to do about it? What's intriguing about this passage is that James, it does not immediately say what will make it better. Instead, shows what makes it worse. What is the relationship between, between verse 13 to 17 and chapter 5, 1 to 6?

It looks like they're two different subjects, but it's not. Versus the attitude of 13 to 17, the illusion that you can control your life through lots of planning and strategizing and managing and hard work, leads to the kind of people you see depicted in chapter 5, 1 to 6. Or, put it another way, how do we know whether you can control your life? Whether you have the life illusion, the life control illusion, or whether you believe that everything good in your life is a gift of God. How do we know whether you have this illusion that basically your success or your failure is really all up to you? Or whether you believe that if you have anything good to enjoy in life, it's basically a gift of God. You know how we can tell? How you spend and use your money. That's the acid test. Why? If you really believe that your success, relatively speaking, everybody's got a little bit of it. If you believe that where you are today is mainly because of forces beyond your control, divine help, the gift of God, then what assets you have, you will not treat as fully yours. You won't see them as fully yours because you know to a great degree they're there because of a gift. It's a gift. And what that does, is it makes you radically generous with them, with your assets. People who really understand that their lives are not the result of their hard work, but the result of the grace of God, they are radically generous. They always live at a lifestyle level lower than what they could afford because they're giving so much of their money away. They're always pushing to give greater and greater percentage of their money away. But what if you have a gift of God and you have the life control illusion, which basically Americans have drilled into them by popular culture and their educational system. What happens if you have the life control illusion and you have success? It's the worst thing for you. Because what it does is you treat everything that comes to you as absolutely yours and the result is what you have in chapter 5, 1 to 6. Now I can only, actually I can't go into it and I'd like to come back later in the year to some of these passages on money. But here's what you see. Two things. One is ruthless business practices. These are business owners who are underpaying their workers. They're not sharing their profits with them. They don't see the profit from their company as really belonging to the community or their workers. They see it as belonging to them. And secondly, what it says down here near the very bottom, self-indulgence. And that word means to spend more of your money on yourself, more of your income on yourself than is right. Spending it on your home, spending it on your vacation, spending it on your clothes, spending it on yourself because you see it as yours.

And perhaps the most frightening part of this passage, 5, 1 to 6, of what can happen to you if you have the life control illusion and it meets with some success in your life is verse 3 when it says, your gold and silver have corroded and their corrosion is evidence against you and will eat your flesh like fire. Now, obviously that's metaphorical. But a metaphor for what? It's talking about the fact that if you have, there's nothing wrong with being rich if you don't have the life control illusion because then that makes you a force for good in the world. But if you have the life control illusion that really I am the reason, I am the master of my fate, I am the captain of my soul. Then when the success comes, it eats out your inside spiritually. It makes you a fool. Book of Proverbs says that the essence of foolishness is to be wise in your own eyes. And what happens to people with the life control illusion that then gets some success is they begin to say, I did this. I mastered this, my life. I'm smarter than other people. That's why I'm more successful than other people. And therefore they begin to apply that to every part of their life. They assume they're smarter than people in every area of life. They assume that if they have their way and if they get control, they can make a success out of everything. And that's just not true. And some years ago, I talked to a woman who had been interviewing some people who had become, or seeking to believe. There was a man who was a very, very successful scientist and as a result had actually become financially very successful. And he was a very successful scientist. Who later in life was starting to explore Christianity. And this is what he said the reasons were. He said, quote, all my life, I didn't feel much need for God. I felt in charge and in control. I was successful at work. I was successful in business. I thought it would be the same with my children. Yet my children accuse me now of trying to control their lives like I controlled the rest of my life. And they're right. I did try. But it backfired completely. I've come to realize that I'm not alone. I've completely lost my kids. I have no relationship with them. And they've shown me that I'm not really in control. At least not over the things that matter the most. That's why the question of whether there is a God has started to matter to me. You know what happened? The success tied to that life illusion, life control illusion, ate away at his wisdom. You know, like fire on the inside. And he started to act with a certain swagger and arrogance in every area of life, not realizing that the success he had was a gift.

So what makes it worse is success. Well, what makes it better? What is the solution? Now, honestly,

James only hints at it. But if you read chapter four in reverse, you get it. The solution is the life of breath and the breath of life. The life of breath and the breath of life. Now, what James talks about in chapter four is the life of breath. It's pretty brutal. As a matter of fact, this whole sermon is pretty brutal. And I'm sorry. Occasionally I raise my voice. I actually came here tonight to the two evening services saying, this is so hard hitting that I probably ought to keep my voice up. I'm going to keep my voice down because the facts speak for themselves. This is one of the most hard hitting parts of the passage. When he says in verse 14, you do not know what tomorrow will bring. And then he says, what is your life? You are a mist that appears for a little time and then vanishes. Gee. You think you're such hot stuff, he says. You think you're in control of your future? What is your life? If you are just, if you are just a mist that appears for a little while and then vanishes. And the image I think is when you go outside in the morning and it's really cold and you speak to somebody, you can see your breath, a little puff of mist, right? On your breath for a second and then it's gone. There is nothing more fleeting than that. Nothing more brief than that. There's nothing harder to hold on to than that. And yet, James says, you're out of touch with reality unless you realize that your life is like that and everything in your life is like that and the life of this world is like that.

You know, Paul says in 1 Corinthians 7, very famous passage, he says, let them that weep be as though they wept not. Let those who rejoice be as though they rejoiced not. Let those that buy things be as those who possess them not. For the fashion of this world, the life of this world is passing away. Okay, meditate with me for a second. This world is passing away. It's vanishing. That's what James says. You know, at some point, every scientist will tell you, there's no doubt about the fact that someday the sun will die and then everything here will be cold and that means there will be no life here at all. You know what that means? Absolutely everything you do, everything you do will be utterly forgotten. And nothing you do, nothing will make any lasting difference. You might be a genocidal maniac. You might be the greatest humanitarian of your generation. But in the end, nothing you do will have any, make any lasting difference and nobody will even be around to remember anything you do, which means that unless there's a God in eternity, nothing you do has any lasting meaning at all. You know why it has no lasting meaning at all? Because, because this world is passing away. It's vanishing like a mist on your breath on a cold morning. It's not just, by the way, the world is passing away, but you, you personally are passing away.

If you take a chicken that you're cooking out of the oven and put it on the table, you know, it's too hot to eat, so you let it, you know, give it a few minutes. Why? Why does it cool off, class? Because it's losing energy. Why does it lose energy, class? Second law of thermodynamics, which is everything is going to more and more disorder. Right? Everything's losing energy. Everything's running down. Okay, well, don't leave it there too long. Because of the second law of thermodynamics, you better eat it. Because if you wait two days, it won't be good to eat. And if you wait two months, it'll be stinking and filled with maggots. Because everything is running down. Everything is losing energy. And do you know, that's what's happening to you and me.

Now, it goes a little slower, and we have these things called workout centers, you know, nutrition, diet, and then there's makeup.

But in the end, that's where we're going. We're vanishing. What is your life? And it's not just that you're personally, individually vanishing. Our families are vanishing. You know, right now, if you are young parents, and you've got a bunch of little ones around the table, you just feel so rich, do you not? And yet, that family is vanishing. Oh, it's slow. But someday, one of the people around that table will see every other person in the grave.

Because the fashion of this world is passing away. And guess what? No amount of strategic planning, no amount of due diligence, no amount of risk management, no amount of planning, no amount of hard work will stop it. So what are you supposed to be thinking about? What is James saying? What are you supposed to be thinking about? Instead of saying, oh, if only I could get down to a size 8. Oh, if only I could make that much money and then buy this and then buy that. He's saying, why don't you say, what can I do that will be around 5 billion years from now? What can I do in my soul that will be around 5 billion years from now? What can I do? And other people's lives will be around 5 years from now that will last. And you say, how could that be? How could you do anything that really lasts? I thought, James says, what is your life? Well, yes. But the answer to the life of breath, which is all we've got, is the breath of life.

When Jesus appeared to his disciples after his resurrection in the upper room in John chapter 20, do you remember what he did? He breathed on them.

And he said, receive the Holy Spirit. And you know what the word spirit means? Spiration. What's the Holy Spirit? God's breath. Well, didn't they already have the breath of life? Didn't Adam breathe, you know, the breath of life into Adam and Eve? Yeah, they had the physical breath of life. We've got the physical breath of life, but it's running down. It's temporary. But when Jesus Christ, to his disciples, to the people who believed in him, breathed on them and put God's breath into them,

he gave them an inner nature that lasts forever. So that's the reason why Paul's able to say in 2 Corinthians 4, so we do not lose heart, though our outer nature is wasting away, our inner nature is being renewed day by day, for this slight momentary affliction is preparing for us an eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison. So we look not to the things that are seen, but to the things that are unseen, for the things that are seen are transient. But the things that are unseen are eternal. And how is this possible? How is it possible that our life of breath can be turned into permanence through the breath of life? You read James 4 backwards. All the things that James 4 is saying we shouldn't do implies things we should do. And the person who preeminently has done the things we should do is Jesus. Who is it that lived a life without any boasting or arrogance? Who's the one who made himself of no reputation? Who is the one who said, come unto me, all ye who are weary and heavy laden, for I am lowly and gentle in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. But most of all, who preeminently said, if the Lord wills? Who is the supreme example of someone who lost control?

Who was like a lamb done before her shearers? I mean, here's the man, the Lord of the universe. Here's Jesus Christ who was in absolute control and he comes to earth and what? He doesn't say anything when they charge him. He doesn't do anything when they beat him. And they nail him to a cross and they say, if you are the son of God, come on down. Take control of your life. And he doesn't do it. Why? He was in our place. He was dying for our sins. And here's the gospel. The gospel is Jesus Christ came and lost control of his life so that you could know everything's under control. Romans 8, 28, all things work together for good to those who love God and are called to corny's purpose. The one who lost control of his life did so, so that you could now know that if you believe in him, everything's under control, under the control of the one who lost control for you. Yes, I don't know why God is doing many of the things he's doing, but I do know he loves you because he became human. He came to earth. He lost control. He was destroyed.

And you're never going to be able to take your mitts off of your life and admit you don't have control until you see him losing all control to say, save you. Why did the eternal become mortal? Like a puff of air that could be snuffed out. The eternal became mortal so we mortals could become eternal so that we could last. You know, sin was eating out our insides like a fire, but Jesus put the fire out.

That's the reason why the psalmist says, and this is a great place in Psalm 103, our days are like grass. We flourish like a flower in the field. The wind blows over it and it is gone and its place remembers us no more. But the steadfast love of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting upon those who fear him.

Don't you want to boast that will enable you to face anything in spite of the fleetingness of your life? Boast in nothing but the cross of Christ. Boast in nothing but the love of Christ. Then you'll be able to face anything. And then you'll be able to handle suffering because you'll know that you don't know. And because you know that, yeah, you're not in control, but he's in control and he lost control for me. And you'll take your money and you'll spend it on other people and you'll take your time and you'll spend it on other people. Don't we want to be a community of people like that? People of that kind of peace in our souls. That kind of pride in what Jesus has done for us. Let's pray. Our Father, we thank you that this hard-hitting and difficult passage points us to the one who said,

not my will but thine be done. Points us to the one who lost complete control like a lamb before her shearers. Points us to the one who did all this for us so that we don't have to try to control our lives. We can't. But we can surrender to you and we can trust you. And we can live lives of peace and lives of low anxiety and lives of humility, not overconfidence. And wisdom. Because we know what your son did for us on the cross. Oh Father, please enable us to live this way because we understand the gospel in powerful new ways through your word and spirit. It's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.