The pattern of Jesus' life is the same. He is the ultimate witness. He and he alone can make sense out of the mystery of your life. Your life is like a jigsaw puzzle, is it not? Lots and lots of pieces. But how does it all fit together? If you don't think your life is a mystery, you're very young.

Who can make sense of it? Just as the witness made sense of the mystery, of all the mysteries that you ever read. So Jesus Christ alone can make sense of the mystery of your life. Only he can finger the culprits. And only he can tell you what to do about it. And what is the result? The result is, of course, just like in the movie, the testimony of the witness is contradicted and the witness himself is hunted down. Lethal hostility toward the witness and toward his testimony. Because you see, Jesus Christ comes talking about God's wrath, wrath, about sin, about faith, about commitment. Put another way, people love Jesus as a miracle worker. They go to him as a miracle worker, as an inspirational teacher, as a moral model. They go to him. But when they hear his testimony, when they hear what he says about wrath and about sin and about judgment and about faith and about commitment, they reject it. That's what the Bible's teaching. And if you reject it, what do you reject? You reject everything. Because we have here in this one verse, in verse 33, the way the King James, the old authorized version puts it, is this. He who receives Christ's testimony sets his seal that God is true. How do you know if there's a God? How do you know what the meaning of life is? How do you know what the secret of your own life is. The Bible says it's all locked up in the testimony of Jesus Christ. If you reject the testimony of Jesus Christ, you will live in bafflement. You will live in darkness. You will live in the puzzlement of the mystery. How do you know if there is a God? How do you know if there is a you? It's all locked up in the testimony. Now, the question then comes to this. Is it possible that any of you might be in this boat? Is it possible that any of us, degree or another go after Jesus but reject his testimony? I would submit that there's a lot of people here today that do that, and actually it's a matter of degree, frankly. To some degree, all of us go after Jesus and yet reject his testimony. And some of us are lost because, though we may appreciate, admire, affirm, respect Jesus like him, we reject his testimony. Could it Could it be you? Could it be me? Let's find out. Let's ask this question. What does it mean to say Jesus is a Witness? What does it mean to say therefore He's the authoritative Truth bringer? That's what a Witness is. What does it mean to say He's a Witness? It means first of all, and in a sense we've eluded to all these things already, but let's unpack them. First of all, He is the one who brings clarity. The Truth bringer brings clarity. He's the one who makes sense of things. We already alluded to that. Let's talk some more about it. In every good mystery, you've got the knot early on. You've got something that needs to be resolved. In every good mystery, you have somebody was murdered, and there's only eight people that could have done it. And yet every one of them has an alibi. But we know, therefore, that couldn't have happened. I mean, there's only eight people that could have done it. Somebody done it. Who done it? And that's how you write a book. And so when you get someone who's got, not hearsay, but authoritative eyewitness evidence who can make sense of things, we live in the darkness. In the same way, your own life is like that. You know there's got to be a purpose. There's got to be a meaning. But what is it? And a lot of people have decided there isn't any. That's like saying somebody got murdered. There's only eight people that could have murdered. They all have alibis. I guess it's all true. I guess nobody murdered him. But they must have murdered him. But I guess nobody murdered him. mystery novel like that, and you can't end your life like that. What is the meaning? What is the purpose? It's the witness that makes sense of what we already know. Not too long ago, I had a chance to fly from Pittsburgh to Charlottesville, Virginia. In order to do that, you do it over the mountains, and you also, it's not a major line, but from Pittsburgh to Charlottesville, so I had a small airplane. So I was flying pretty low to the ground, and I was able to see the highways. They're twisty and you always have these great big trucks. On these twisty roads, there's almost no passing zones because you never have stretches of the road where you can really see what's coming. So you have these poor cars, you know, 20, 30 cars, going 35 miles an hour up these roads, laboring behind the trucks. And from where I could see, I could see the whole road. I could see the whole road because I was up here. and I see them down there just struggling along and I look and I say, there's nobody coming for a mile in the other direction. Why don't they pass? Other times I see somebody trying to pass. I see one of these guys who's finally fed up. I can just tell. And he pulls out and from my vantage point, I'd say around the bend, here comes another car. And I remember that one time happened and the guy got back in just a nick of time and it was very, very dangerous. And I really swear, after a while I started to say, communicate. Because I see the whole road and all they see is their little piece. If only I could communicate and give them what I can see, then they would know when to pass and when not to pass. Now, this passage says that Jesus Christ is a witness. Why? Because it says in verse 31, He is the one who comes from above. He brings testimony from above. That's why He brings clarity. Why do you listen to the traffic report? Those of you from New Jersey, huh? you get in the car and you listen to the traffic report. Why? Because you listen because there's somebody in a helicopter who can tell you there's a 25 minute backup at the Lincoln Tunnel but there's no backup at the George Washington Bridge so you head for the George Washington Bridge. His testimony comes from above.

Do you say, well listen, why should I listen to the guy in the helicopter? He's not down here. He doesn't know what it's like. He has no idea.

Of course you listen to him because he's not down there. Because he's not in the car with you. Because he can see the whole road and you can't. His testimony comes from above. That's why you listen to him. He can see the end from the beginning. He can see the whole road. The Bible says Jesus is a witness. His testimony must be received because he is the man from above. It's only from the viewpoint of eternity that you can tell a person what to do in time. It's only from the viewpoint up there that you can see the end from the beginning.

we don't like it. We don't like what he says. But we're forgetting the context. He comes from above. To say, I don't like what he says there. I see what Jesus teaches. I see it, but I don't like it. It's impractical. That's like saying, the guy in the helicopter, what's he know? I'm going to head for the Lincoln Tunnel anyway.

Look, for example, John the Baptist. What did John the Baptist do? do. John the Baptist had the right attitude. The people come to John the Baptist and they say, look at this guy, Jesus. Everybody's going to him. They're leaving us. Everybody's going to his church and nobody's coming to our church anymore. Offerings are down 50%. What are we going to do about it? And John the Baptist says, you're forgetting. I'm from the earth. I'm from below. He's from above. I'm on the highway. He's in the helicopter. helicopter. He must increase. I must decrease. You're forgetting who he is. Now, do you have the mind of John the Baptist? Do you have the attitude? Do you have the humility? Or better yet, do you have the wisdom of John the Baptist?

Well, let me put it this way. Jesus Christ comes to us, and he speaks to us and gives his testimony at two levels. Let me suggest these two. The first one is at the level of the lifestyle. Now, at the level of lifestyle, he comes and he tells you how you ought to live. Now, let me give you four things that are in Jesus' testimony about how you ought to live. He says, always tell the truth.

He says, don't spend your money on yourself, but be radically generous. He says, sex is dehumanizing outside of marriage. binding commitment and covenant, sex dehumanizes. And inside the covenant, it humanizes. And he says, when enemies attack you, respond in love. He says that to people living in New York, those four things. Be honest. Don't spend your money on yourself. Don't have sex outside marriage. And love your enemies. And you say, you're crazy, right? I would be plundered if I live like that. Nobody lives like that. I'll be unhappy if I live like that. That's impractical to live like that. And Jesus says, I'm from above. I can see the whole thing.

I long to save you with the knowledge I have. I see you trying to pass trucks at the wrong time.

You see, listen, friends, I want to know something. Is it possible that today you are going to him, him, but you are rejecting his testimony in one of those areas, money, sex, power, relationship, integrity, because you think it's impractical, then you are one of the people that we're talking about here. You go to him, but you reject his testimony. You forget, like John the Baptist, remember, you forget, unlike John the Baptist, that he is from above, that you're from the earth, that he's up there in the helicopter saying, I just wish. No, he's not like me who said, I wish I could communicate with the guy down on the road. He's like the man in the helicopter who's broadcasting through the radio, you see. He's broadcasting his word. And if you reject his testimony, you are like the guy trying to pass without knowing what's coming. You're taking your life in your hands. You're ignoring the man in the helicopter who yearns to save you with his knowledge.

He must increase.

He must increase

Now, there's another level at which he comes to us He doesn't just talk about lifestyle He doesn't just say, you know Don't spend your money on yourself and don't lie He also talks at a deeper level Not just lifestyle issues He also talks at the level Of the very direction of your life If you read Jesus' testimony He's constantly saying You're a sinner and you need to believe in me. And it's one of the areas in which people reject his testimony. Because of the movie Bonfire of the Vanities, there's been a lot of reviews of the movie, and a lot of people have started talking about the book again. And recently I read another review of the book, which came out, as you know, some years ago. And the reviewer, it's a great review in this, he really says it's a great book and I don't like it. And here's why. He says, because in Tom Wolfe's book, everybody's a sinner. And there's no good guys. And he points out that what Tom Wolfe does is with real clarity and with amazing accuracy, he points out the selfishness, self-centeredness, the inhumanity, the sinfulness of everybody, rich and poor, haves and have-nots, white and black, wasp and immigrant, male and female, conservative and liberal, No matter who you are, he shows the sin. And the reviewer says the problem with that, it's oppressive. Because in the end, there's nobody to turn to. And believe it or not, the reviewer actually says, who will deliver us now?

The Lord moved him to write this so I could use it as a sermon illustration. It's just a good. The reason the reviewer was unhappy was Tom Wolfe him to do something that all of us do in order to deal with the mess that our lives are. We have to blame somebody. We have to say, the problem is out there.

Out there, that one, those guys, those people, that group, they're the ones who have fouled up my life. The rich, the criminals, the director I wouldn't sleep with so I never got my break. My father and mother, my pathological family. The Ku Klux Klan, the deviants. Everybody says that they're the ones messing up society. They're the ones. Everybody has to say, I'm not the sinner. That's the sinner. And you see, the reason Tom Wolfe's book was so oppressive to this guy was Tom Wolfe wouldn't let anybody off the hook. We're all sinners. There are no good guys. There is no human resource to deal with it. It's not like, here are the bad guys and here's the good guys, and they're the ones that are going to solve things. The book wouldn't let them do that. And in the same way, Jesus Christ comes like this. He says, my friends, I know what it's like to be oppressed. I know what it's like to suffer injustice. I know what it's like to be abused. But here's the danger. You think that your problem is out there, but the problem is in here. Because you're an oppressor too. Where do you think the oppressors became... Where do you think the oppressors who oppressed you learned to be oppressed? Somebody oppressed them, and then they turned around and oppressed you, and you are an oppressor, and you are a mistreater, and you are too wrapped up in your own problems to love either. You're a sinner. That means you seek to be your own God. You recognize no authority higher than your own needs and desires.

You'll be moral as long as it profits you. So you're your own God. You recognize no authority higher than your own needs and desires. You want to be your own God. That means you want to live your own life. You want to call your own shots. You want to decide what's right and wrong for you. You want to establish your own self-worth through your own performance. Say, be your own savior. You want to be your own God. My friend, Jesus says, my testimony is this. You will never be happy till you recognize that's your problem. Yes, those people out there are bad, but you, it starts in here. You have got to lay down your arms and stop rebelling against me. and make me your master and your savior. Now, do you think, my friends, that is an incredibly pessimistic and medieval view of God? If you do, you're rejecting the testimony of the one that comes down from above, the man up there, the man in heaven. And not only that, that is not pessimistic. It's not pessimistic at all because of this. If the Bible is right, everybody's a sinner and there's no good guys,

that our salvation must come from ultimate outside of us, from God himself. It must be free. It must be grace. It must be spectacular grace. In other words, no human resource and no human person could possibly be the higher power that saves you. It's got to be Jesus. And Jesus, the man from above, says, I am the one. I do it. Here I am. Give yourself to me. Sign yourself over. That's clarity. Don't you think that any other analysis of the human condition is superficial? Because every other analysis of the human condition says, these people are more sinful than those. Everyone but the gospel says, these people are more sinful than those, and therefore these over here, these are the good guys. They will do it. They'll handle it. They're all right. You can always find another book that shows that they are not all right. Every other analysis but the gospel is superficial. Everyone is naive, and who more than New Yorkers want to avoid naivete?

Jesus Christ, his testimony says, you're all sinners. There are no good guys. Your salvation comes from above, not from the earth. It comes down. Listen to my testimony. Receive it. Now, another thing that Jesus Christ brings you then is authority. A witness does not just bring clarity, but also authority. authority. Because you see, a witness to be admissible in court, a witness to really be, to really have bearing on the case, cannot be bringing hearsay evidence. A witness has got to be someone who has actually seen or heard the thing that he or she is talking about. Jesus Christ, we're told, brings the words of God. Do you see that? And down in verse 33, it says, says, the one whom God has sent speaks the words of God, for God gives the Spirit without limit. What that means is, I am speaking words about God, but Jesus is speaking words, the words, the very words of God. Every religious teacher is giving you hearsay evidence. There's a certain sense in which none of us can possibly, in this primary sense, be witnesses, because Jesus is the only one who has seen God face-to-face and who created you. If you want to know inside information about a family, ask a member of the family. If you want to know inside information about life, ask the creator of that life. Jesus is the author. You know, the great illustration that I always like to come back to that shows you. You can have a big debate. We can have a bull session about what this poem means, you know, in our English class, until the author walks in and the author says, this is what the poem means. And that's the end of the discussion. Because you have a different view. The author looks at you and says, what do you mean? I wrote the thing. Well, I think it means something else. I said, well, you're crazy. I wrote it. That's the end of the discussion because he has authority because he's the author.

Jesus Christ comes into your life and he says, I have authority. Do you understand that? I'm from heaven and therefore I don't bring words about God. I bring the words of God. So my words are different than Muhammad's words. My words are different than Abraham's words. My words are different than Buddha's words. My words are different than Tim Keller's words. My words have authority. And you see, my words, my own, Tim Keller's words, only have authority to the degree that they match, and they uphold, and they exhibit, and they reflect the words of Jesus. The only witness. Do you know what that means, to say, this is my authoritative witness, the authoritative truth bringer of my life. Ulysses, remember on his big trip, he knew he was going to go by the island of the sirens, and he wanted to hear them. And he was also told that if you heard the music of the sirens, you went mad. But he wanted to do it. So what he did was he took himself and he lashed himself to the mast. He put wax in the ears of all of his sailors who were rowing. And he says, now when we get by the sirens, I will go crazy. I will start to threaten you. I will say all kinds of terrible things to you. I will say you've got to untie me. Don't listen to me. He put himself under their authority because he knew that he was going to have a fit of insanity. He was going to be out of touch with reality. He put himself under their authority. He lashed himself to the mast. And he took away his own independence, didn't he? Because he knew it was coming. A lot of people, when I talk to them like this, and I say, listen, what it means to belong to Jesus Christ is to receive his testimony. That means to not just say this is a clear witness, but this is an authoritative witness in my life. Therefore, I bind myself to obey whatever he says. And people say, gosh, I'm scared of that. That means he might ask me to do things that I don't want to do. of course he's going to ask you things you don't want to do. What's the use of having authority?

Abraham didn't want to sacrifice Isaac. Moses didn't want to go to Pharaoh. Jesus didn't want to go to the cross. But what they all did, every one of them, was they bound themselves to the mast. You see, anyone, anyone with an ounce of self-knowledge knows by looking at your past that you had all sorts of fits of insanity, made all sorts of bad decisions, poor priorities, foolishness, impulses, sorts of things. And you know that there's no evidence that they're over. What are you going to do? You bind yourself to the mast. You say, I know that if I put myself under the Word of Jesus Christ, what that means is He's going to ask me to do things I don't want to do, things that don't make sense at the time. But I also realize that He is the author. And He knows. So I bind myself to the mast. I know that there's going to be fits of insanity. And I'm going to say, I put myself under you, because you're the man in the helicopter, and I'm just down here in the car. You're the one from above, you bring the words of God. Now, lastly, last thing, how do you know, how do you receive the testimony? How can you really receive it into your life? That's the real question, is it not? How can you receive it? And the answer, in the modern translation I read you, it says, the answer is in verse 33, the man who has accepted it certifies that God is true. And the word certify, unfortunately, just doesn't have, I don't think, the clout. In the original, the original text says, he sets his seal that God is true. To receive Christ's testimony is to set your seal. You know what that meant? You know, rich and powerful people had a signet ring. And they had their insignia on the ring. And the way in which they signed a contract was they put their seal to it. you sign on the dotted line. To set your seal to something means you have bound yourself. Now, why is it, for example, a lot of people like to live together without getting married? It's very simple. I like this person, but I don't want to set my seal to this person. To set your seal means you lose your independence. You have invested yourself. You've obligated yourself. You can't just walk, at least not nearly as easily. You see that? You've made yourself vulnerable when you get married. You're far more vulnerable. You're far more obligated. You've set your seal. You've made a legal contract to that person. What does it mean to receive the testimony of Jesus Christ? What does it mean to set your seal to him? It doesn't mean, well, I'm going to give him a shot.

I'm going to see whether or not he helps me. I'm going to give him a try.

It's like sleeping with somebody in the back of the car saying, well, I love you, but I don't want to set my seal to you.

What it means to set your seal to Jesus is to say, here's my life. I hand it over. I owe you my life, and so I give you what was yours all along. Does that sound too esoteric for you? It's pretty simple. It's saying, I set my seal. I bind myself to do whatever you say. Anything that I'm convinced that you have said in your word, I will do. Well, somebody says, that's pretty scary, and there's two kinds of people. to conclude, give a concluding word to. There's some people who said, listen, that's, listen, I was raised in a kind of religious atmosphere where I was given a lot of rules, and that sounds like what you're laying on me, and I was crushed with guilt, and I don't want to go back to that. Here's what I have to say to that. You still don't get it. To set your seal to Jesus, and to everything he says includes the gospel, and the gospel is that you're not saved by your performance, but you can be accepted into His sight and into the family of the Father only because of the free grace that comes to you because Jesus has died for you and done everything. He's paid the debt you know you owe. If you're crushed under guilt, you have set your seal to yourself.

And if you're still crushed under guilt, you set your seal to yourself. You basically said, I bind myself to my own performance and efforts instead of setting your seal to Jesus. And everything he says, obeying everything, including the gospel that says it's not your obedience that saves you. And there's some of the others of you here. Listen, there's a lot of us, aren't there? Yeah, we've done that. We set our seal to him. We moved over from just going after him to saying, I receive his testimony. And isn't it true that a lot of the clarity and authority that ought to be in your life because of this is not there? Why do you lack a lot of the clarity and authority that you ought to have Jesus Christ is in your life. It's because setting your seal is a once thing. That's when you get converted, but then after that, you've got to continually renew it. I mean, I told my wife, I love you, when I married her. You know, I set my seal to her, January 4th, 1975. But it's no good if tomorrow she says, do you love me? And I said, I told you on January 4th, 1975. What do you want? I set my seal to you. She says, I'm sorry. I would like you to renew that

and maybe the lack of authority and clarity in your life is because the Word of God and the Word of Christ is not dwelling in you richly. It says in Hebrews 3.13, we should exhort each other daily, lest we be hardened. Do you have anybody in your life that you're talking to about the Word? Do you sing the words of Christ to each other? Do you constantly point with joy to the words? Do you have other people who do that for you? you? Does the Word of Christ dwell in you richly? Do you find yourself saturating yourself in it, praying it into your life? You see, are you continually renewing the setting of your seal to the testimony of Jesus Christ? If not, or until you do, you're not going to have that clarity and the authority in your life that comes to those who have received his testimony. He's from above. He yearns to save you with the knowledge. He's not like me in the airplane without a microphone. He speaks. You can hear Him, and you can set your seal to Him. Let's pray.

Our Father, now during the offertory, during the offering, we're going to look our lives over. Some of us are seeing now that we go to You and we affirm You in many ways, set our seal to you. We've never certified. We've never signed up. We've never actually committed our whole lives to you. We want to live our own lives. We really want to be our own God. We want you to help us out, but we don't want to set our seal to your testimony, O Lord Jesus Christ. Father, there's always a healthy number of people in any group that need to make that step. I pray that you will enable them to see who they are and that you would enable them to do it.

Father, there's so many of us who just don't have that authority and clarity in our lives because the Word of Christ, the testimony of Christ is not dwelling in us richly. That we're actually rejecting His testimony maybe in an area when it comes to money, when it comes to sex, when it comes to integrity. We may be rejecting the testimony in an area of our life and not experiencing the clarity of the Witness.

Father, we pray now that you'll give us what we ask. We thank you that you're a prayer-hearing God.

Father, we've got needs. Many of us are broken and worried. We have your testimony that you'll take care of us. We're worried about the situation in the Middle East. We have your testimony that you're in charge of history. And we ask that you will work that out in consonance with love and justice. worried about friends, we have your testimony that you love us and our friends more than we love them ourselves. We're worried about these things. Help us to see if we set our seal to you, we'll know your truth. Now we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
