Help us to not just get a general grasp on what marriage is, but then help us to apply the knowledge we receive. To help us understand who and how and when, if you're calling us to be married, that we should. And so we ask that you would help us not just to know your heart better because of our time together tonight, but our own hearts. And we ask that you'd help us to study our hearts as well as your truth. name. Amen. We're going to do just what I did last week. It seemed to work very well, maybe too well last week. I'm going to give a talk. My wife is going to come up and supplement that. We're going to talk about the subject, how do you know if when you're looking at a particular person, you should marry that particular person or not. And after I've done the first round and Kathy's done a supplemental talk, we will just handle questions, answer questions, and we will do that and have plenty of time for that, and we're going to do it right here. We're going to go till... Now, some of you will need to leave earlier. I just want to warn you, what we have been doing is we've gone to 9.30, and we will go again to 9.30. Unless you totally run out of questions, And if you do, I'll know that you're liars and cowards because there's plenty of questions. But I want you to get from me right now emotional permission. If you have to leave earlier, you just get up and leave. I know you're not mad at me. You might be. But this is your way of being able to be mad at me and not have my feelings hurt because I've just said, if you have to leave earlier, just pick up and go. But we will stay here until 9.30. I think if marriage was a development of late Iron Age society, we're going to have to go at this issue in a completely different way than if we decide or determine that marriage was invented by God for the welfare and happiness of mankind. Now, therefore, it's impossible for me to proceed with this issue to answer this question and try to assume some kind of common middle ground that everybody here, regardless of your view of the origins and nature of marriage, will find profitable. I can't do that. You see, if you really believe marriage is just a human convention that just developed, evolved, you're going to look at it in a completely different way than if you believe it was actually given to us by God for our welfare and our happiness. And therefore, if it was invented Then the way in which you use it and the way in which you go into it. Would be to honor the regulations of the Creator. Just in a same way that when you buy a car. You pull out the owner's manual. The owner's manual. Is actually the Creator's manual. It was written by the ones. Who created a car. They know how it operates. You follow the owner's manual. You. Because. You want. Your car. To run. Properly. You ignore. The owner's manual. At. Your. Peril. And. So. If. You. Think. God. Invented. Marriage. You. saying, what did God say marriage is? If you didn't believe that, if you don't believe that, you'll have a whole different viewpoint. So we have to go at it this way. I'm taking a Christian perspective. And even if you're not sure that is your perspective, I still think you're going to learn quite a bit because I believe that perspective is the truth. You see, if it's the truth, then no matter where you stand, you will have to learn from this. If it's the truth, even if you disagree with the presuppositions of the Christian point of view, if it's really the truth, if this is describing reality, you're going to learn from it. And therefore, I do feel that I can just take that perspective. So I'm talking as a Christian and I'm talking about marriage in a Christian perspective. What I'd like to do is I'd like to give you three basic

teachings, three principles that are the basis of what the Bible says marriage is. So I want to define defined Christian marriage. I want to say what, in the Christian understanding of marriage, what's the essence of it? What's the purpose of it? So what's the essence of marriage? And what's the purpose of marriage? And then we'll talk about what should the priorities be in marriage. So I'm going to talk about the essence of marriage, the purpose of marriage, the priority of marriage, to give you an overview of what the Bible says marriage is. Then I'll turn those three principles around and I'll turn them into tests. Because you can't look at somebody and say, should I marry unless I have some idea about what marriage is. So our tests for whether I should marry this particular person ought to grow out of that. They ought to grow out of our understanding of marriage. So I'll give you three principles of marriage, and then I'll turn them into tests. And then Kathy will get up and straighten everything out. All right. First. First of all, what the Bible says the essence of marriage is. And we'll turn this into the last test. The essence of marriage. a marriage. What is it that really makes a marriage a marriage without which it is not a marriage. It's just like saying what's the essence of a pharmacist. Then if you say a pharmacist is a somebody who wears a white coat. You wouldn't really be right. Because even though a pharmacist does wear a white coat. That's what makes a pharmacist. Non pharmacists wear a white coats. And a pharmacist could be a pharmacist without a white coat. and therefore it's not the essence. What's the essence of marriage? Some people say it's deep affection. Strong feeling. Hmm? That's what it is. It's this deep feeling. I have to feel love. I have to always feel in love. I've got to always want to be with that person. That's the essence of marriage. And therefore, of course, that's what I have to feel for somebody I would be considering marrying. So it's that deep feeling of affection and a need to be with that person all the time. Some people say, no, the essence of marriage is much more bottom line than that. It's having children and raising a family. That's what God invented marriage for. That's what it's for. Other people said, no, marriage, the essence of marriage is sexual attraction, sexual excitement, sexual chemistry. Now, those are stupid possibilities, and I'll tell you why. First of all, deep affection. Well, of course that should be part of marriage, but, you know, dogs have that. You see, just like non-pharmacists wear white coats, dogs have tremendous loyalty, tremendous affection. They're always there. You know, they never seem to look at you. If you know your dog loves you, the dog isn't moody. You know, the dog is always happy to see you. The dog is extremely full of affection. The dog doesn't say, I don't know what it is, but you just don't grab me today. The dog is always there. Okay, what about, well, we raise a family. Having children do that. They do it better than we do. And they don't have marriage and they don't need marriage. What about sexual attraction? Is sex the essence of marriage? Some Christians have literally believed that. Some Christians say, if you've had sex with somebody, you are married to them in God's eyes. That's not true. You can prove it. I mean, you can go back, for example, in all those, you know, studying the obscure laws of Exodus and Leviticus and Numbers are pretty interesting. For example, if a young man a young woman still living with their parents still under their parents authority. If they would have sex with one another. The Bible says they can't get married unless their parents agree. And you see what that means. The Bible doesnt say well they had sex therefore that's the essence a marriage. They're married. They have to get married. Oh no. Not at all. Their parents have to sit down. Because they're a very young people. And they have to decide. Is it right. And if they can forbid it. The Bible doesn't say that sex is the essence of marriage either. What is it then? What do you have to have? It's really not very romantic. You have to have a vow. What makes marriage a marriage is a public vow, a public commitment. The essence of marriage has nothing to do with feelings, or sex, or raising a family. Essentially. Now, all those things we hope will be there. Not essentially. was any of those other three things, then marriage would be coming and going. It would be waxing and waning all the time. Because contrary to popular opinion, all those things come and go. Children come and go. And then they're gone. Feelings come and go. In spite of the fact that a lot of you make that your acid test for whether or not you're going to marry somebody. I've got to always be passionately desiring to be with that person. Sexual attractiveness comes and goes. And therefore, therefore those things can't be the essence of marriage. The essence of marriage is when you make a public vow. And a public vow means you make an appointment with yourself for the future. That is, you say, 10 years from now, 20 years from now, if I'm alive, I will be loving, be tender, be cherishing, be faithful, be serving, be ministering. I promise to be. When you take a wedding vow, you're not saying a thing about your feelings. You're saying, in spite of my feelings, this is how I'm going to act towards you. It's a public commitment. it's a legal contract. That's the essence of marriage. If you have that, you're married. That's the essence. Secondly, the purpose of marriage. And the purpose of marriage... The purpose of marriage... There's a number of ways that you can look at it. If you go way back and see how it was that God invented marriage, he invented marriage when he saw that Adam was alone. And when God saw that Adam was alone, He created marriage so Adam wouldn't be lonely. You see what the purpose of marriage is? The purpose of marriage is friendship. The purpose of marriage is deepest companionship. The purpose of marriage. When Adam saw his wife, he breaks into the first poetry in the history of the world. He says, this at last is bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh. You shall be called woman because you were taken out of man. man. Or to paraphrase that, he says, love you, I am you. We're one. The companionship, which is, you can see in a minute, we'll get back to it in a minute, the companionship, which is so much the very purpose of marriage. We talked about it last week. In the Old Testament, your wife is called your halup. A halup means your covenant partner, your covenant companion, To be married means that you are absolutely vulnerable to that other person. They see all the way to the bottom of you. You see all the way to the bottom of them. They accept you completely. You accept them completely. You feel radically understood. And they feel that you radically understand him or her. That's what friendship is. What does it mean? It means there should be nobody who you think really understands you better and therefore would be a better counselor. It means this. It means there can be no secrets. If you find yourself either in a kind of... You have to have secrets sometimes for various kinds of quickie reasons, but I mean, if you have secrets from your spouse for indefinite periods of time, you are in a dysfunctional marriage for sure. because the purpose of marriage is not the sexual attractiveness and it's not romance. The purpose of marriage is friendship. Deep friendship. Deep oneness. Deep unity. Complete companionship. And if you are married, I always say to people, and I imagine very few of you are. I guess you wouldn't be here. If you are married, I say do everything you can to get to that condition where the secrets are not necessary. Where that other person understands you. them and there's really nobody else in the world with whom you have that kind of understanding. Frankly, if you've got a best friend, somebody you can let your hair down to, and it's not your spouse, you're in a lot of trouble. That's a whole lot more of a problem than if you're sexually maladjusted. It's so silly when people say, well, how do I know if I haven't slept with this person whether we're sexually adjusted? Who cares? Sex is a function of your communication, not vice a versa. Your communication is not a function of sex. I'll tell you where a lot of sexual maladjustment shows up. Your communication problems tend to show up in bed. The fact that you can't talk. The fact that you have got some barriers. The fact that one person doesn't feel understood. And therefore, the fact that you're not naked with each other emotionally. That you're hiding from each other. That you can't trust the other person to really understand your deep feelings. Because you're not naked emotionally, you will find it difficult to be naked physically. You just won't have that abandon. You won't have a sense of humor about it. Sex is very funny, if it's done right. Very funny. There's an abandon about it. It shouldn't be this serious thing, I've got to perform. It shouldn't be this... It's a joke. It's fun. And it only happens when you're emotionally naked. Then you can be physically naked. It's silly to talk about sexual maladjustment being a real problem. The real problem is, are you best friends? Are you absolutely vulnerable? Do you feel understood? So the purpose of marriage, it is not good for man to be alone. Or woman. If the woman had been invented first, you would have to invent the man. The whole idea is marriage is for that deep kind of companionship. So there's the essence of marriage. It's that public vow. It has nothing to do with your feelings. It's a commitment. Secondly, the purpose of marriage is deep oneness. And lastly, the priority of marriage is itself. Unlike any other institution, what's the... You see, a school is a wonderful institution, but it shouldn't be the very number one first thing in your life. The Church is a wonderful thing. But it shouldn't be a number one thing in your life. There's 2 relationships that should be a number one thing in your life. First, your relationship with God. Then second. Is a relationship with a spouse. Put it this way. Marriage must be a human relationship. That has a priority. It's got to be. Put it this way. Marriage sets a course in a life. And I read this a few years ago. go. I forget, what was the guy's name? Arvin Engelson. Arvin Engelson, I haven't seen you in 20 years. If you hear this tape or you, if you hear the sound of my voice, I appreciate that paper that you wrote at Gordon Conwell Seminary in 1970, well, no, it was 74, something like that, called Marriage, a Vehicle of Redemption. And in it he said, he said, marriage has a power, has this power, that's why it's got to have priority, has the power to set the course of your life as a whole. If your marriage is strong and everything else about you is weak, it doesn't matter. You move out into the world in strength. But if, on the other hand, your marriage is weak and every other area of your life is strong, you know, your job's going well and your career's going well and people like you and your friends and your career's on the way. If your marriage is weak and everything else around you is strong, it doesn't matter. You move out into the world weakness. Your marriage has that kind of power. And therefore it's got to have that kind of priority in your life. And it has to have that priority because the power it has. And I mentioned it last week. The power it has is short of your relationship with God. It has the greatest power to reprogram your self-appreciation. It recreates you. We mentioned that last week. If everybody around you is saying you're ugly. And your spouse says you're beautiful. You feel beautiful. And the vice versa. If everybody else is passing the verdict that you're wonderful and your spouse says you're terrible, you feel terrible. And it has that kind of power. It does. Marriage, why does it have that kind of power? Why do you think marriage, in spite of how many people have predicted its demise, why is it that we've never discovered a culture, no matter how isolated, no matter how remote, no matter how primitive, it did not have the institution of marriage in it. It's because it is not a development of the late Iron Age. There's an indelibility about marriage because God invented it. And that's why it has that power. And that's the reason we instinctively know it. So first of all, the essence of marriage is the vow. It's that public commitment. Secondly, the purpose of marriage is deep oneness and companionship. And thirdly, marriage has to have the priority in your life because it has the power to reprogram and set the course of your life as a whole. Alright, having said that, let's turn around and turn some of these things into some tests. By the way, there's two sources, and I hate to do this to my office staff, but there's two sources that have been the most helpful to me on how do you know whether you should marry somebody. Doubtless, there must be tons of books and lots of Christian books. My guess is that the Christian bookstores are clogged with them, but two sources that have helped me a lot. There's an older book by Walter Trubisch called I Married You. It's a pretty good book, pretty helpful, and it's got a section in there on various tests to use. And also a couple of friends of mine, Dave Palacin and John Yinchko, put together a little handout called Should We Get Married? and Should I Marry You? And it's pretty helpful too. The reason I'm afraid I don't want to do this to my office staff of that and it's available. All right. Do, okay, number one. Let's start with the, let's turn the purpose into a test. And the first purpose is when you look at this person, I don't care what he or she looks like, does this person have the potential to be your number one counselor in your life? Does this person have the possibility of being the number, your number one friend and that nobody else ever did or ever will come close. You see, now, I want you to realize that at another spot I'm going to turn around and say to you, a lot of you are just way too scared of getting married. But there's others of you that are way too ready to get married, even though you know this isn't even close. A tremendous number of times, the person that cuts the right image, that comes from the right side of the tracks, that has the right kind of connections, that looks right, is somebody that you are, quote, in love with, which means you're infatuated, which means you've got this great affection for, but there's just all kinds of areas in which that person can't possibly... will never get to be your best friend. Now, to say, is this person my best friend? There are some sub-questions, Alright, here's some sub-questions under this one. A, under number one, is this person a Christian? Now, do you see where I put it? A lot of times Christians, when they give talks on how do you know who you should marry, the first thing they say is, make sure you marry a Christian. Now, that's a perfectly legitimate thing for anybody to say. Every religion has always said that, with plenty of wisdom to it. The Catholic Church has said, marry a Catholic. The Jewish faith said, marry a Jew. The Muslims have said, marry a Muslim. Are they all narrow-minded? Heck no. They're just absolutely practical. They realize all kinds of problems that show up when you have two people of very different faiths trying to merge. But I put it under this heading because people that say, I want to marry this person. I'm a Christian. She is not. I'm a Christian. He is not. Then what I say, of course, yes, what about what the Bible says in 2 Corinthians, that you shouldn't be unequally yoked to unbelievers? What about all the wreckages of the history of the world? Why do you think so many religions say, only marry somebody from the same faith because of disagreements that come up? But I say, it's very clear that you don't expect this person to ever be your best friend. Or, Jesus is not the center of your life. It's one or the other. You see? See how I can say that? Either you don't expect this person to be your best friend, or else Jesus isn't at the center. Because you want, in a good marriage, to have somebody understand you. Understand what makes you tick. And if one of the main motivations for the things that you do, if one of the key visions of your life has to do with who Jesus is, and how Jesus has changed you, and how you want to change the world through Him. If that's really one of the great passions of your life. It's not good enough for somebody to say, Oh, you're a Christian. That's fine for you. That'll be fine. I'll even come to church with you every so often. glad you're into that. It's not my thing. If you say, that's okay, I'm madly in love with you, you then, either Jesus is not all that critical to you, or you don't really expect that person to be your best friend. How can you have a deep friend who doesn't understand that? How could you possibly? Or maybe you've got the old model that says, well, basically, your spouse is somebody that you want on your arm, that can provide, you know, that's the a traditional approach. The woman says, I want a good provider. I want a guy who's, you know, people look up to. The man says, I want a woman who's, you know, I can be proud of the way she looks and that kind of thing. That's the traditional view of marriage. And basically, I'll have somebody else I'll let down my hair to. I'll have somebody else that'll really be my friend. I'll have somebody else who really understands me. That kind of marriage is dysfunctional. And biblically, it's a counterfeit. If you say, I want to that person is not a Christian, then it's clear that you really haven't figured out what friendship is. And you know that your best friends, if Christ is anywhere near the center of your life, are also people who understand that. You follow me? That's why we say that. One of the great advantages of becoming a Christian is actually what maybe superficially looks like a tremendous disadvantage. The first thing people say is, oh my word. In since I've been in New York and trying to talk to people about becoming a Christian or stepping over the line into faith, I have often, I've been amazed how often the person says, well I'm real interested but let me ask, does this mean I can't marry somebody who's not a Christian? It's amazing how often that's come up. And I'll say, I'll say, well, yeah it does. I mean there's a short answer and a long answer. The long answer is one thing. The short answer is, yes it does mean that. That's a short answer. And a person says, well that narrows your possibilities terribly. Let me tell you what it actually does. It deepens your understanding of marriage terribly. You see it's going to force you not to be superficial in who you marry. It's going to force you to say, I need to have somebody who really understands me. It doesn't matter what he or she looks like. It doesn't matter whether we have fun together. It doesn't matter whether we can dance a night away. don't matter. I've got to have somebody who really can be my, you know, my kindred spirit. It'll force you to do something you should have done anyway. Even if you just wanted to have a good marriage. Even if you weren't a Christian. It finally forces you to go deep. So when I say, is this, you know, number one, can this person really be my wonderful counselor? Can this person really be my best friend? Subheading, is this person a Christian? If the person is not a Christian, if the person doesn't make Jesus your priority, his priority or her priority, like you, then really that person needs to be ruled out. Why? Because don't you want a friend? You just want a lover who's not a friend? Some of you know what that's like. It's not so great. Another part, and this goes along, second subheading under, is this person your best friend? Subheading one is the person a Christian, and two, can you change each other? for the better. In other words, do you find that you're able to solve problems biblically? Do you have a track record of conflicts or scrapes or confrontations in which you come out on the other side? Change for the better. Can you see places in which that person is pointing out to you things that are wrong in your life and doing it in a way that ultimately is winsome, maybe not initially, but ultimately is winsome. And wins you over. And has helped you. And has changed you. Do you find that person listening to you? Are you sharpening each other? Are you far better people than you were before you met? Or, on the other hand, are you finding that your relationship drains you? Are you really able to say, look, here's a whole list of problems we have solved together. Here's a whole list of ways in which he has changed me or she has changed me. And I the other. list like that. Do you find that the person gets stronger and that person makes you stronger? There's a, do you find, for example, in this person, these kinds of traits, and you always find these in friends. Remember, friends. Is the person willing to change and adaptable? Does the person seem to spot your needs and recognize what your desires are? Is the person able to give and receive affection? Is a person able to make him or herself understood and understand you? These are things you want in any kind of friend. Therefore, they should be five times, ten times more present in this particular kind of relationship. This is not as hard as you think. There's a ton of people out there who could be wonderful friends, but they just don't look good enough for you. They'll be wonderful friends, they just don't look good enough for you. That's the reason why your prospects are so incredibly narrow. Because you want to take the new concept of biblical marriage and wed it to your old concept, and that is having a designer spouse. You know, by the world's standards. You want to put those two things together? Yeah, it is going to narrow your possibilities. There may not be anybody like that and so you may be in a lot of trouble, alright? No, I'm talking about people who you can be a friend with because a person who is your friend has got to be somebody that has the same vision, that has the same loves in many ways. It doesn't mean that necessarily everything you like to do the other person likes to do, but you've got to have certain things in common. In C.S. Lewis' book, The Four Loves, he says, affection, remember, eros, which is erotic love, friendship, philos, and commitment, agape. And he says, in a sense, the difference between affection and eros, and commitment and philos, is that if you're going to have to draw the first two, affection and eros, you'd have to draw a picture of two people looking at each other. But with friendship, you draw a picture of two people standing side by side looking at something else. Friends are people that have something that they both are passionate for that actually is bigger than their relationship. If you find that here's a person, that person is not a Christian, so there's no spiritual passion. That person is different from you in causes, causes and different from you in ideals, different from you in vision, but you sure have fun together and you sure can cut a rug well together and you sure are sexually responsive and the chemistry is great, you really shouldn't have anything to do with that person because there's no friendship there at all. Okay? You've got to have something that you both are looking at. Can you solve problems biblically? Can you change each other? Can you be friends? All right. Now, that's the first test? It's can that person be a friend or a companion? Second test, remember the second test has to do with priority? I'm going to give you actually a bunch of sub-questions. Are you heading in the same direction? Now, we're not talking about spiritually. Another way to put it is, can our callings be coordinated? Your calling is what, everybody's called to a Christian. Everybody is. But then, God also, the Bible says, or Protestants have always taught this. God calls you to different sorts of things. Different careers. Different places. Different stations. Different parts in the work of the Kingdom. Some of you are urbanites. Some of you hate the urban setting. And feel no sense of needing to stay. Here. Past when you actually have to stay here for the goals that you're here for. Some people have got. Some people, well, some people want to be missionaries. Some people don't. Some people are called to lots of education. Other people are not. And at this point, the Bible says that everybody is called. Everybody has different callings. And you may find that even though you're both Christians and you both can solve problems biblically and you both have a certain Christian maturity, you are being called in some different directions. Now, for example, Dave Pallison says, of leaving questions and cleaving questions. Now, I'll explain what he means by that. For example, cleaving questions. By that he means, where are you going in life? Are your gifts and your ministry interests moving you in the same direction? Can you walk alongside of each other gladly? Now, I'll give you the one that I know a whole lot about that in many of your cases isn't that important, but maybe you can see the principle. Because I taught at seminary, this. When a man would say, I like to, who's going into the ministry, I would like to marry you. And the woman says, well, I don't want to marry a minister. And he says, it doesn't matter. You're not, you're marrying me, not my ministry. I used to say, this is a naive thing to say, my friend. Because you are, frankly, marrying your ministry as well. You marry the whole person. If you're falling in love with a lawyer, you're marrying a lawyer. Okay. You don't say, well, well, you're not marrying the law practice, you're just marrying me, but you're marrying a me who's a lawyer. And so you do have to ask those kinds of questions. What level of financial and material expectations have you got? There are people who have got very, very different kinds of callings. In some extreme cases, some people are called to virtually voluntary poverty. And that's a calling. It's not stinginess. it means God's calling you to live in situations that a lot of other people probably couldn't be called to do what level and kinds of church involvement do you desire what if one of you is really being called into a particular kind of church that really has very different views than the kind of church background that you're in what are your views and attitudes toward the role of men and women what happens when the first kid comes along is the wife supposed to quit her job, is that your understanding You better work that out. And I also believe there are different callings there too. Instead of saying there's only one way to skin that sort of thing. Now this is another subject for some other teaching. Some other Monday night. There's more than one way to skin that. But we can't get into that now. All those different ways. But the point is you've got to find that out. Those are different callings. How many children do you want? Do you want any children? Those are different callings. How close are you going to be to your parents. And to their way of doing things. that's a calling as well. You know, what if you're married to somebody who said, the way in which my parents' family and home operates is the way in which I really, really feel called to operate our home. You better find out what that's like. And these are legitimate issues to be looking at. That's what I mean by saying, are you going in the same direction? And one last thing, and then I'm going to have Kathy to come up and supplement. The first one is companionship. Can this person really be your friend? Second thing is, are you moving in the same direction? The third thing, remember the essence of marriage? The essence of marriage is to get up in front of all the authority structures of the church and of the state and of the family and all your friends and to promise and legally bind yourself to be cherishing and to be faithful and to be serving and to be tender and to be loving, regardless of how you feel and regardless of how the other person acts for the rest of your life. Okay. That's the essence of marriage. Now, if you love somebody enough to be willing to do that, then you love them enough to get married. You know, there's a lot of people that say, hey, I love you, but I don't really see why we need to get married. Let's just live together. And let me translate that. I don't love you enough to get married. I don't want to make myself that vulnerable to you. I don't want to make myself that committed to you. See, so the third issue is there does have to be feelings. I didn't get there first. First, for all the reasons I've told you, the person's got to be your best friend. There's got to be some coordination in your calling. It doesn't mean it has to be an identity, just coordination. Thirdly, there has to be, as you work on your companionship, as you work on your spiritual life together, as you flesh out the callings and so on, there has to be a growing affection and desire and love coming, yeah. Now, what if it doesn't happen? it could be because you're still wedded. And it could be that your emotions are still wedded so much to the old understanding of marriage. This person just doesn't look quite like the way in which I think a spouse ought to look. This person isn't quite dashing enough. This person isn't quite what I wanted. And your heart and your feelings may be so linked to that old understanding of marriage that it just pulls you back. And if that's true and you see those bad motives, you know what you should do? You should call it by name. and you ought to proceed. You ought to say, there's no reason in the world why I shouldn't marry this person. As far as I can see, my feelings, my up and down feelings about this person are completely linked to bad motives and to false and pathological understandings of marriage and so I'm going to proceed. On the other hand, if the feelings just aren't there, even though everything else seems to be falling into place and as far as you know, your feelings aren't based on that particular, you know, pathological, older views of marriage. In that case, what you ought to do you ought to say, maybe I'm missing something. Maybe my lack of passion and feeling is tied to something I don't really feel good about. There's some place in which we're not communicating. There's some way in which I think our callings are too dissimilar. And you look at those things, and it could be the lack of passion is because there really is some problem that you just haven't been able to analyze yet. Something that gives you a great deal of pause. So the lack of feeling at the last minute is not that unusual. In fact, one of the things that my wife and I have noticed so often in talking to people over the years about this, it's amazing how often people say, I'm really on the verge of marrying this person. And this person is a good friend. Never admired. I've never had anybody I dated that I admired as much and respected as a person. Never had such great talks. Never had such good friendship. Never had such a strong Christian and so on. and yet, and yet, I felt I was a lot more in love with other people that I've been involved with before. And at that point, you have to look and say, isn't it possible? The reason is before that you tended to only screen, you screened out people like this before. And you only went after folks who just had a certain erotic attraction for you. And that can, you know, for a couple of years, you can stay pretty overheated with just erotic attraction. Eventually, it wears off. Or on the other hand, maybe there really is something that gives you pause. Some block to you really being a good friend. Some block to you really living out your callings together. And so in that case, you can't in the end force yourself through those unless you really analyze what those reservations are. And at that point, that's really hard and the only way to work through them is to get not too many but a significant number of friends sitting down and talking it out with you. somebody, I don't think, unless people who know you pretty well have agreed with you, hey, you are, you do bring out the best in each other. There is a companionship there. You do seem to help each other to one another's calling. You ought to have some friends who can agree with you on that. And at times where you're really there and you can't seem to pass that third test, I want to give myself to you. I desire. Why are my feelings holding me back? Be careful. In fact, this is the last thing I'll say on this. If you have a pattern of this, and see, here I'm in Manhattan, I'm talking not to kids in most cases. We're not talking to 20 and 21 year old people here. We're talking to adults, by and large, right? It could be that some of you have got the same pattern. That every time you seem to get into a situation where this person looks really marriageable and I don't see any obstacles, you just freeze up. And you're just plain old-fashioned commitment phobic. It could be this is the second, the third, the fourth, the fifth time. It continues to happen, and you always can find some kind of fault, and you're just simply afraid of actually putting your trust in any other human being. And you have to look back and say, well, in the end, I'm not. I'm a Christian. This person's a Christian. I'm really trusting in God. I'm going to stuff my feelings and proceed. There is a time to say that. Be careful that you don't get railroaded into people coming to you and saying, saying, the Lord has told me you two have got to get married in spite of all those bad feelings. But I'll tell you something. Hasn't that happened to anybody here? On the other hand, if you find that it continually happens, time after time after time, relationship after relationship after relationship, then there may be a time for you to sort of, like I said, stuff your feelings and say, I'm failing test number three. Test number three is, I want to marry this person. I do want to marry, and I know I can, all right, but right here on the edge of the precipice, I'm freezing up. If that happens every time, maybe it's time for you to just break the ice and say, I'm not going to wait until I have these wonderful, passionate feelings every day of the week for this person. I know that if I just proceed, if I start to commit myself, I know that the feelings will come. And I suggest that is a way for some people to go. It's a hard thing to counsel 150, 200 people. Every person is different, but there's a test. Companionship, calling, and do you want, are you willing to get up and make those promises? Now, I think my wife is ready to supplement, right? I certainly didn't take everything you wanted to say. Not this time. Okay? Over there. I have a whole sheet full of junk, but maybe I'll let people ask questions. There is one thing. Get to the mic. There's one thing I wanted to say, just on the subject of what Tim is lastly talking about, fears that hold you back all of a sudden. I think that's more of a problem the wiser you are. There's sort of a backlash problem that happens with mature Christians in that the wiser you are, the more perceptive you are, the older you are, the more you've seen bad marriages go down. You've seen good marriages go down and turn into bad marriages. And you look at a person and it's sort of like when we bought our first car. I said, it looks all right, but is it going to fall apart on the way home? You wait the little time bomb to go off and a person to show themselves up to be a kleptomaniac or, you know, some real bad thing that you aren't able to discern. And so it's this process of, well, let's evaluate a little more. Let's see if I can't decide, discern whether every problem that potentially could be here isn't here so I can proceed. The fear that is bred in that kind of a way. Yeah, Tim's right. You do need to be wise. You need to be perceptive. Get the counsel of friends. But there's a point at which you have to trust God's grace. You're going to marry another sinner. You haven't got a choice about that. And sure enough, sinners sin. And one of these days, they'll do something bad to you and there'll be a hurt. But God's grace will be there for you, for him, for her, for the relationship when you need it. I can remember so clearly during the time of my life when I was single, trying to peer ahead into what the future would bring and say, what if I'm single my whole life? What if I'm single until I'm 80 or 90? What would that be like? And I would try and conjure up, you know, how lonely would I feel? How bitter would I feel? But the thing that God didn't do, he doesn't play along with our little phobic daydreams. He doesn't inject the imaginary grace that he will provide if that ever occurs curves into the little imaginary scenario that you set up. So you've got to face this bleak future that you've conjured up in your imagination, minus the grace that God will actually have available if you ever get there in reality. You follow what I'm saying? The same thing with marriage. You know, you look at a person, you think, well, they have this flaw, or they have that flaw, and maybe it's not too bad right now, but what if it turns into, you know, and you imagine this, or that or the other thing. God's not going to play along with you in your daydreams and inject for the purpose of your fantasy here, how he's going to support you, how he is going to resolve that, how he is going to instruct you in wisdom, how he's going to provide for you in that situation. He will if you actually get there. God has a lot of grace available for marriages. I mean, It's one of the things that he uses as a vehicle to describe what the relationship with Christ to his people is supposed to be. And in the last pages of the Bible where all of history is being consummated in this big triumphant thing, it's a wedding. It's the wedding of God and his people. There's a lot of grace that God has available for marriages. So when you're trying to figure out whether your designer spouse, that you've got all picked out, you've worked through all of the problems all of the issues, and you're still wondering, is there some hidden disaster lurking there? Maybe I need to just test drive this relationship for a couple more years. Trust God at some point. I mean, there is grace available in the future. If a problem crops up, you should only expect it. Jesus said, don't be surprised when you suffer, and he wasn't addressing that only to single people. He was addressing that to married people as well. Well, I almost feel like stopping and just letting people ask questions so we know what kind of questions they have. Well, let me see if I've got a question. Are you staying? And that person has a question. Oh, well, yeah, the question comes this way. Why wouldn't it be possible, I'll put it positively, why wouldn't it be possible for a person who's not a Christian to understand you very well if you are a Christian. Now, why could a non-Christian or a person who's not a Christian not really understand you very well? Well, there are plenty of people that have got what the theologians call common grace. And common grace means that God throws out gifts of wisdom and insight to people regardless, to a great degree regardless, of whether or not they believe all the right things. who are very talented as counselors.