James chapter 5, 13 to 18. Is any one of you in trouble, he should pray. Is anyone happy, let him sing songs of praise. Is any one of you sick, he should call the elders of the church to pray over him and anoint him with oil in the name of the Lord. And the prayer offered in faith will make the sick person well and the Lord will raise him up. If he's sinned, he will be forgiven. Therefore, confess your sins to each other and pray for each other so that you may be healed. The prayer of a righteous man is powerful and effective. Elijah was a man just like us. He prayed earnestly that it would not rain and it did not rain on the land for three and a half years. Again he prayed and the heavens gave rain and the earth produced its crops. And that's it. Don't turn over. Is there anything else? Sermon. Okay. Okay, that's what comes next anyway. The book of James is extremely practical. It goes over very, very specific concrete duties and aspects of Christian living, practical Christian living. And today we get to this passage on prayer. And it says, really, it tells us two things. It tells us about the power of prayer in general. And then it tells us about the power of prayer for healing, physical healing in particular. And then it talks... It also gives us in here the qualifications for powerful prayer. So what you have here is... It's the power of prayer and the qualifications for powerful prayer. Let's take a look at them. First, it's very clear that James is trying to impress upon us that prayer makes a dent in the world. It makes a dent on the environment. Look, it says the prayer of a righteous man is powerful and effective. That means it has effects. It means it really has an effect on the environment. It has effect on things. It has an effect on the world. It really changes things. Back in the 4th century A.D. in Antioch in Syria, there was an awfully good preacher named John of Antioch. And he was named Chrysostom, which in Greek means the golden mouthed, because he was a tremendous preacher. And he had a sermon on prayer in which he said this. He says, The potency of prayer has subdued the strength of fire. It has bridled the rage of lions. It has expelled demons. It has broken the chains of death. It's assuaged diseases. It's received... It's rescued cities from destruction. It's stopped the sun in its course. It's arrested the progress of the thunderbolt. Every one of these things are things that he's found in the Bible, that prayer did. And then he says, There is in prayer an all-sufficient armory, a treasure undiminished, a mind never exhausted, a sky unobscured by clouds, a heaven unruffled by any storm. It's the root, the fountain, the mother of thousands of blessings. And he's trying to say is prayer is powerful and effective. And Jesus makes an incredible claim on these lines. And to me, the most amazing of all is in John chapter 14, verse 12 to 14. And he says this. He says, Anyone who has faith in me will do what I have been doing and even greater things than that. Because I'm going to the Father and I will do whatever you ask in my name so that the Son may bring glory to the Father. Now, I can't even begin to tell you what that means. That means, you know, all I know is it's very exciting. It's saying that when I go to the Father and you pray to me, everything that I came into the world to do, my power against sin and death is released into the world through prayer. It's released into history through prayer. He says, I'm going so that what I was doing here on earth is the incarnate Savior walking around that I can do through you. And we can storm the status quo. We can change the oppression. We can change. The power of sin and death. All these things, we can change them. We make a dent because I'll be standing at the Father's right hand and you pray to me and through your prayers. And that's what Jesus is saying. I can't even begin to get to the bottom of it. But as we said, that's what he's saying. Prayer is powerful and effective. And the particular, though, that James is talking about is prayer for sickness. And I really want to look at that for a little bit. It says here in verse 14 and 15, he gets out one example. And he says,

He says, What is that? Well, let's spend a little bit of time on it. First of all, we see that James is assuming that the church has a ministry of healing prayer. He doesn't just say, oh, I heard some of you are sick. I got an idea. Why don't the elders? No, he doesn't do that. He says, let. In other words, he expected this. This is assumed. It's assumed that Christians are dealing with the sick members through prayer. It's assumed. Certainly, this doesn't mean, surely nobody can extrapolate from this that only elders are allowed to pray. Elders represent the church. And we'll talk in a minute about when that's appropriate and so on. But he's assuming that there's a healing ministry of prayer, that prayer has an effect on sick people. And what he says to do in this ministry of prayer is there's got to be three things. Number one, there needs to be anointing with oil. Now, there's not an order here, but they're here, the three things. Number one, it has to be anointing with oil. Number two, there has to be prayer over the person. And it's called a prayer of faith. And thirdly, there needs to be confession of sins and forgiveness on the part of the person who's sick. Now, what does all that mean? And here's what we can say. First of all, let's talk a little bit about the prayer of faith itself. What does that mean? And if any of you have been other places and you may have heard it interpreted differently, maybe what I'm saying is going to go at variance to what you've heard. This word prayer of faith is a very unusual word. It's a very unusual word for the prayer. There's a lot of different Greek words that are translated prayer, and it's a very unusual one. And from what I can tell from, you know, I'm not a Greek expert. All I can do is rely on other Greek experts, but this is what I can see. The prayer of faith is not with very often people who try to do ministries of prayer and healing. I tend to think of it. Some people think a prayer of faith means a prayer of incredible certainty. Just getting, you know, screwing up all of your certainty. Working yourself into a kind of spiritual lather. I'm not trying to make fun, but see, the idea of, some people say a prayer of faith means no doubts. And so very often people who try to do a healing ministry of prayer say a prayer of faith means we can have no doubts. And very often the person comes in and says to the sick person, I want you to know that you have to ask and you can't doubt. And this is a terrible thing. This is a terrible way to do it. Because if the prayer is not answered, and we're going to see that these prayers are not always answered, then the only possible explanation would be one of us is doubting. Who is it? But you see, if that's what the prayer of faith is, I can give you another example of a prayer of faith. In Mark chapter 9 verse 21, a father comes to the, a father with a demon-possessed little boy, comes to Jesus and says, I pray that you heal my son. And Jesus says, do you have faith? And basically he says, I do. I don't know. What he says is, I believe, help my unbelief. Which is another way of saying, I do and I don't. I have faith, I guess, but I don't know that I have faith. And I wish I had more faith. Please help me. And Jesus says, that's faith. I mean, when somebody comes and says, now we're going to pray over your healing, but we can't doubt, nobody can doubt. What about him? That was a prayer of faith. Other people believe that the prayer of faith means to command, go into a command mode. And I've heard many, many people over the years say, yes, I have a ministry of prayer and healing. And what they do is they don't talk to God. They talk to the person or they talk to the sickness. And they will say, I rebuke the sickness. Get out. Stop it. Rise up and walk. Talk to the person. Now, that's not prayer. I know Jesus often did it that way. Rise and walk. I know Jesus did it that way. I even know some of the apostles did it that way. But you will never, ever, ever anywhere find, in the New Testament, Christians told to go about their lives, to pray. What about healing like that? This says you have to pray. Prayer is a request to God. None of this command mode thing. You're never told to do that. Besides that, when you start to command the person or you start to command the sickness, you know, you're moving yourself into a very different realm. James is saying healing, spirit healing in the church happens through prayer now. Not through command mode, but through a prayer mode. So then what? What is the prayer of faith? Well, the prayer of faith is simply a very specific request. Sometimes when you have, one commentator put it really well. One of the books I was reading on James said, sometimes you go in with a prayer of rest. You know what a prayer of rest is? That's where you go in a situation, you say, Lord, I don't even know what I should be asking for. I don't even know. I just ask that you would take care of it. You would do what's best. You just sort of lift the thing in prayer. A prayer of faith, this commentator says, simply is a very specific, very direct request. The elders are supposed to get together and say, Lord, this is what we ask for. We ask for this very specifically. We ask for this very directly. Of course we have uncertainties, but we're coming to you with them. And that is the prayer of faith. You know, when the man said, I believe, help my unbelief, Jesus said, that is belief. It's to come even with your doubts. That takes more faith than sort of working yourself into a lather. It's to come to me, to be dependent on me, to ask very directly, very specifically. And so that's the first thing this is. This is the prayer of faith. The second thing is anointing with oil. And what that means is also extremely interesting, but we know one thing. A lot of you are doctors. I know I baptized one tonight. A lot of you are medical people. I think it's very important for you to know that this is medicine. Did you know that? You ever read the Good Samaritan parable? In the Good Samaritan parable, we're told that a Samaritan comes along and finds a man who had been beaten up by robbers in the road. Do you remember what he did with him? Anybody remember? He poured two things on him. What? Oil and wine. No, he wasn't making him into a salad, which is what we do. No, what oil and wine was, oil was for the soothing of the body and very often for the softening of the wounds. And wine was for antiseptic purposes. Wine was something that sterilizes wounds. Oil was considered medicine. Now, oil was also a sign of the Holy Spirit. And therefore, what we really got here is something that almost, again, all the people who study this say. On the one hand, this is a way of saying that prayer does not replace medical arts. Prayer is to supplement medical arts. It doesn't mean that when you pray, you're not saying, praying for a miracle. Whenever you pray for somebody's healing, you're saying, Lord, if you would like to do this without medical arts, if you would like to do this against the so-called laws of nature, if you would like to do this apart from any particular medical measure or therapy, fine with us. The part of the prayer of faith is to say, we know that you don't even need any means. You can act directly. But the anointing of oil is another way of saying that, Lord, we also bring this person spiritually to you, but also physically to you. In other words, we're using all the various means. Oil and prayer means that the responsible and right thing for us to do as Christians is to realize that the medical arts are a gift of God, just as all the sciences are. And God can use that. And that's one of the ways in which we suggest. You see, one of the ways we propose to God, Lord, we're bringing him to the doctors. We're bringing him to you. Use the doctors or don't use the doctors, but heal. In the biblical understanding of things, grace doesn't have to replace nature. It can very often transform it, you see, complete it. And thirdly, you have the confession of sins. And the confession of sins is very interesting. We're told here that when you are doing the church's ministry of healing prayer for a sick person. What have we already seen? First of all, you pray specifically, fervently over them. Secondly, you make sure they're getting the best medical care. But thirdly, you make sure that there's a spiritual therapy going on as well as the physical. And this is most, most important. We're told that when a sick Christian is seeking physical healing, that sick Christian must examine his or her heart and look for sins and confess sins and renew your relationship with God. Now why? And here's, this is, this is very important insight. First of all, in many cases, and I'm going to, boy, I'm going to have to restate this a couple times so nobody goes out saying, Tim said that when you're sick it's because you're sinning and you need to confess your sins. No, but sometimes, sometimes yes. And frankly, the people who had the most medical practice know how often spiritual emotional issues, issues of anger, issues of guilt, issues of anxiety, issues of fear, you know how much that undermines a person's physical health. Years ago, some Christian doctor had to knock, you know, knock some sense into me and he says, can I tell you what a psychosomatic illness is? What do you think it is? And I said, well, psychosomatic illness is when it's just all in your head. And he says, no, and he almost hit me. And he says, no, listen, psychosomatic illness is in your body. You have real headaches from the worry. You have real ulcers from the fear. You have real colitis from the anger. I mean, your body is breaking. It's not in your head. It's in your colon. It's in your lungs. It's in your brain. It's not just in your mind. Psychosomatic illnesses are not imaginary illnesses. They're real illnesses. But they are aggravated and many times absolutely caused by spiritual issues. And there is nothing better that you can do than get right with God, get at peace with God when you're sick. There is nothing better than to get your conscience clear. And to see the things that have been too important to you. And to get right with Him. And to sense His love again. There is nothing you can do better for your physical healing than to do some spiritual healing. This is profound wisdom. Because, first of all, often the spiritual healing will cause a physical healing. But secondly, I said sometimes sin actually, spiritual and emotional issues, very often cause the physical. But in many other cases, there is no spiritual healing. There's a reason you're sick. It has nothing to do with your sin. And yet, sometimes sin causes the physical illness or aggravates it. But in other cases, sin is revealed by the physical illness. Now listen to me on this one too. I used to do an awful lot more hospital work when I was in a church in Virginia, a smaller church. You know, our average age here is pretty young. There's not as much sickness per person here. It's a very large church and we've got an awful lot of small group leaders. And staff people and shepherds and so on. So I don't do as much of this. But I did see it. And I know from my own experience. When you get sick, you feel weak. You feel vulnerable. You feel fragile. You feel like you're breaking down. Even when you have a really bad cold. You see your real spiritual condition sometimes only when you're physically laid low. When you're healthy, you feel like you're going to live forever. When you're healthy, you feel like you're really in charge of your life. And sometimes, not until you get sick, then you realize what a fragile, vulnerable, dependent, contingent creature you really are. And it's when you can hardly get out of bed sometimes that you actually have a true picture of your real spiritual condition. We are utterly dependent on Him. What does He say? Without Me, you can do nothing. And I can tell you personally, very often when you get sick, it humbles you into the dust. And very often, just because you're out of the busyness, when He maketh you to lie down, you start to be able to look at your life in ways you couldn't before. Sickness is very humbling. Sickness knocks you on down. And so often, you will be able to see sins. You'll be able to admit flaws that you couldn't any other time. So what I'm trying to say is, sometimes the spiritual healing and confessing and getting right with God actually causes physical healing. But other times, the physical sickness actually causes the spiritual healing. But the Bible is saying here, you must always, always do them together. You must always use physical sickness as a time for spiritual renewal. You must always make sure that you're working on spiritual healing as well as physical healing at the very same time. Always. And if you do that, then what? You'll very often find, as many, you know, now there's more and more empirical data, that people who pray, people who are seeking God, people who are praying who are sick, get better faster. That's not a promise, which leads us to the last point. So anyway, in other words, prayer has this incredible, powerful effect. And the healing ministry of prayer in a church is extremely important. One real little quick point. We have always done this at Redeemer. When people come to the prayer, if people are sick and they call for the elders, we meet, we anoint with oil, and we pray over you. Now that I've said that, we might get deluged, and that's all right. But I want you to know that some of us have been talking more about how we can be more available and make that more a part of our regular ministry. But the Bible assumes it, and in a sense I think the Bible commands it. But this is something that should be going on, not just with the elders. In other words, when you get a really bad cold, it's a time to repent. It's a better time to repent. I don't think you should call the elders every time you get a cold, if you don't mind my saying so. There's a hierarchy of need. But the fact of the matter is this sort of thing should be going on inside the church. As you see, it says, one another. Pray with one another, verse 16. We'll look at that next week. But right in the middle of all this, after elders, it says, So pray for one another and confess to one another that ye may be healed. So this ministry is not just for elders. Now, we've got to deal with a couple other issues, certainly. Before we just talk about the qualifications. Well, no, yeah, let's do this. Some people are going to say, ah, and it says, the prayer of faith will. Doesn't it say that? Yes, it does. It says, and the prayer offered in faith will make the sick person well. Ah. The prayer of faith is so unconditional, and therein is its power. A lot of people would assume that. This says, will. This says that if I pray in faith for somebody's healing, they will get better. If they don't get better, then either the person or the person who prayed, or the pray-er or the pray-ee has not responded in faith. But that's not what it can mean. It can't mean that. Now, we could obviously have an entire sermon. In fact, we could have a couple of sermons on unanswered prayer and why. Well, somebody says, what do you mean it can't mean that? Well, I've already tried to show you that, first of all, the prayer of faith cannot mean that you have perfect faith. But in addition, you have to remember that Jesus Christ had an unanswered prayer. I point that out, but for once, I usually point that out. But let me tonight point out why. Jesus Christ, in the Garden of Gethsemane, said, Father, if it's possible, let this cup pass from me. And what did he mean when he says, if it's possible? He said, if it's possible. Meaning, if there's another possibility. If there's some other way to do the salvation. If there's some other way to do it. I need healing, elders. Excuse me. If there's some other way. If there's some other way to do this. If there's some other possibility. He says, if it's possible, let this cup pass from me. And it wasn't. He was saying, is there some other way? I'd like to get out of this. And he was turned down. Why? Jesus prayed in faith. Oh, my goodness. Jesus had perfect faith. He had to have perfect faith. That's his job. His job was to live the life you should have lived. As well as die the death you should have died. So we can't say he was turned down because he lacked faith. You know why he was turned down? Because he lacked knowledge. What? You say? Of course. Now, this isn't a time to get into the Christology. But Jesus said, for example, I don't know when I'm coming back. You remember that? When he was on earth, in his human form, Jesus didn't know everything. And that means this. When it says, in fact, Jesus often talks like this as well. It says, the prayer of faith will raise him up. You know what I said? I read from John chapter 14. Jesus said, I'm going to the Father and I'll give you whatever you ask. But see, that's just, when those statements are there, they're there to show you that prayer is powerful, but they never mean, those statements never mean to tell you everything there is to know about prayer. Why was Jesus turned down? Not because he didn't ask properly. You remember the place in James chapter 4 where it says, you have not because you ask not. And when you do ask, you ask wrongly to be selfish and to spend it on yourself. But Jesus asked perfectly. Jesus asked absolutely perfectly. So his faith was perfect and his motives were perfect. Why was he turned down? His knowledge was imperfect. He said, is there another possibility? I think there is. Let's try another one. Now here's what I'm trying to say. Let's just use common sense. If there's anybody here, if God came to you tonight and said, I want you to know that from now on, anything you ask for sincerely in common sense, you will receive. Complete faith. Not selfishly. Anything you ask for that you think will be good for you, you think will be good for your beloveds and you think will be glorifying God, anything you ask for sincerely in faith, I will give you without condition. If God came down and said that to you, if you had any brains in your head, you would stop praying immediately and never pray again. And all of your friends would also come to you if they had a brain in their head and say, please never pray for me again. Why? Why? What? dearly thought honored God, and it was destructive. Have you ever made a mistake? Of course. Recently, I saw kind of a comedy sketch. It was making fun of gun enthusiasts. It was pretty funny, but at one point, there was a family, and everybody had guns, and it was pretty funny. It was on Comedy Central, and at one point, the little kid turned around and said, Dad, how come you haven't given me a.45 Magnum with armor-piercing ammunition? And the father looks down and says, well, honey, you know you're too young for that. Not until you're 10. It was funny. You think that would be criminal to give a 10-year-old a.45 with armor-piercing bullets? You think it would be criminal? It would be far more criminal for God to say, whatever you ask for in faith, without condition, I will give you. Prayer would no longer have power, or it would have power, but it would have destructive power. It wouldn't be something we're excited about. We wouldn't say, look at the power of prayer. We'd be frightened by it. We should be frightened by it. It would be child abuse if our Father, who art in heaven, gave you things regardless. That's the reason why what we always say, and I'll say it again tonight, is when you ask something of God, God will either give you what you ask, or He will give you what you would have asked for if you knew everything He knows, because He's your Father, and fathers are like that, and they're. So now, last of all, what's the qualification? I mean, don't you want a father like that? And therefore, that's the reason why there's unanswered prayer. Why unanswered prayer? Because He loves you. The only reason for unanswered prayer is because He loves you. Look at all those promises. Jesus says, I go to the Father. I want to do incredible things through prayer. The Father loves you. If you ask for things, He can't wait to shower you with blessings. Why would He ever not answer a prayer of yours? Only because of mercy, and only because He wants the power of prayer to really be power in your favor, and not destructive power. It's the only possible reason. That's the only way you can understand the text. Now, lastly, what are the qualifications? What are the qualifications? It says you have to be righteous. See that? A powerful prayer, effective prayer, is the prayer of a righteous man. Now, this is the final point to wrap up. A point, though, again, there's a lot we can say about it, but here's what we should say. When you see that, do you just sort of, you know, your heart just sink and say, oh my gosh, you took all this time to tell me about how great prayer is and healing, and then you tell me it only works if I'm righteous? Thanks. A lot. Thanks for nothing. Well, you have to remember something. On the one hand, on the one hand, it's clear that there is a degree to which we can say that the more righteous we are, the more effective our prayer is. You notice right after he said the prayer of a righteous man is powerful and effective, then in verse 17 it says, and Elijah was a man just like us, and he prayed. Now, why would he say that? Right after he talks about righteousness, he would say he was a man just like us. Well, if you go back and read the book of Elijah, you'll feel a lot better. A lot. I mean, not the book, but, you know, Elijah in 1 and 2 Kings and all that. If you go back and read about him, you'll feel a lot better because he was like us. He got depressed. He got scared. He was an imperfect person. And so, to one degree, it must mean that the more righteous you are, the more righteous you are. Look. See verse 13. Is anyone of you in trouble? He should pray. Is anyone happy? Let him sing songs of praise. Now, you know what that means? Prayer, before it's a petition, is a stance of the heart. It's a stance of loving gratitude toward God. And when you're in need, that stance of loving gratitude turns into petition. Oh, Lord, help me. But when you're in success, that stance of the heart turns into praise. There are some people, if they came to you with a tremendous problem and they asked a great deal of you, you would look at them and you would say, I'm so honored. I'd love to do it. And there's other people who, if they came to you and asked the very same thing, you would feel used and repulsed. Why? A person who uses you is somebody who only comes to you when they need money, only comes to you when they're in trouble, only comes to you when they've got a need, and when everything's going well, they ignore you or there's just niceties and courtesies. And there's other kinds of people who, when things are going well, they ignore you. When things are going well, they come to you and they share with you and they tell you how much you help them and so on. In other words, one person loves you. The other person is using you. One person actually is seeking to serve you because they want to be a friend. They love you. And the other person is seeking to use you. Now, how do you know whether you have a true stance of prayer? It's very simple. If you only pray when you're in trouble. Do you pray as much when you're happy? Or do you mainly pray when you're in trouble? You're using God. God knows. God's as repulsed as you are when somebody only shows up and calls you when they need money. If you have a stance of the heart of love and grateful submission to Him, then you will pray as much, if not more, when you're happy and when you're sad. And to the degree, you see, everybody's somewhere on that line, from using God to loving God. Nobody's all the way up here. In other words, there's a relative amount of righteousness. And the more righteous you are, the more you will find prayer working in your life, and the more you will find God hearing you, and the more effective your prayers will be. That's got to mean what that is. So, in terms of actual righteousness, the more righteous you are, the more you sing praises when you're well, as well as ask for prayer when you're sick, the more powerful and effective your prayer will be. But it can't only mean that. You know why? Because the Bible says, for example, in Psalm 69, one of the most awful verses in the Bible, in Psalm 69 it says, If I cherish iniquity in my heart, He will not hear me. I'll never forget John Gerstner coming to Gordon-Conwell Seminary, my seminary, when I was a young man, I was a first-year student, and he preached a chapel at Gordon-Conwell Seminary on that verse. If I cherish, you have to understand something, well, you wouldn't know how he really sounds, if I cherish iniquity in my heart, He will not hear me. He preached a sermon on that, and all of us seminarians, we all have to understand that, all of us seminarians, all of us aspiring ministers, all of us people who thought we were spiritually big shots, we all skipped the next class, we ran home and had a quiet time. We confessed our sins. But you know, the more you look at that verse, the more you say, this is ridiculous, it's right, we're sinners. No matter how much higher up that righteousness line we are, no matter how much higher up that righteousness line we are, why would He ever hear us? And the answer is, He would never hear us, because we're always cherishing iniquity in our hearts to some degree, we're always sinful, why would He ever hear us? Well, you see, here's the interesting thing. The prayer of a righteous man availeth much, that's the old King James Version, and the prayer of a more righteous man would avail more. The prayer of a perfectly righteous man would avail perfectly, and you've got one. Romans 8 says, Who shall bring a charge against God's elect? It's Christ who died, who is risen, yea, who is seated at the right hand of the Father, who ever maketh intercession for us. What is that? He's praying for us. And now, He's perfectly righteous, and He has absolute knowledge. He's never going to be turned down again. Remember the time when Jesus said to Peter, Peter, you're going to deny Me. And Peter says, Not me! Not me! Never! And Jesus says, Simon, Simon! Boy, listen to this! Simon, Simon! Satan wanted to have you. He was going to sift you like wheat. But! I have prayed for you! And when you pray! you turn, he says, when you repent, you'll be a great leader. He doesn't say if you turn, he says when you turn. Why? Because the prayer of a righteous man, a perfectly righteous man, can never be turned down. And there's only one, and he's praying for you. Now, sometimes you pray for something that he doesn't pray for, only when it would be a bad thing for you. But what is he up there praying for? He's praying for your holiness. He's praying for your happiness. Happiness. He's praying, always praying that you stay faithful to him, and that's the reason why he can say, Simon, Simon, no matter what Satan does, I've prayed for you. You're never going to lose God, and God's never going to lose you. Because when God looks at you, he sees me, the perfectly righteous. Ah, the prayer of a righteous man is powerful and effective, and we've got one. And that's the reason that I get pretty excited whenever I read this little poem. It's actually a hymn that was never put to music by John Newton. And though I am despised, I am not a sinner. I am a sinner. Yet God, my God, forgets me not, and he is safe and must succeed for whom Christ promises to plead. He is safe and must succeed for who Christ promises to plead. Let's pray. Thank you, Father, for making us people who, as we grow more and more like your Son, as our hearts turn more and more to you, we find more and more our prayers becoming powerful and effective, changing. Our lives and the people around us, we thank you that the reason we can know that you will always hear us and will always give us what we ask or something better is because we stand in the righteous one whose prayers for us are absolutely powerful and totally effective. I pray, Lord, that everyone here will make more use of that righteous interceder, that righteous high priest and advocate. I pray that we might pray more boldly and that we might make every opportunity, both good times and bad times, and especially sick times, opportunities to come closer and experience the spiritual and physical healing that can happen to us through prayer. Make us who we can be through your Son, and we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
