Let me talk about where we've come. We've said that the Bible is actually about the mission of God. When you realize that, it changes your self-understanding and your understanding of our relationship to the world. We talked about that last night. And we also said that when you begin to understand, begin to think, I'm going to use this term, which is actually starting to get used in different places in the country in different ways. So forgive me if you read a book and think, oh, this is the same thing Tim was talking about, and then you find out it's not. But missional thinking, which is realizing that the Bible is about the mission of God, and being a Christian is to join the mission of God in a sense. Once you start to think missionally, you realize the city isn't just a place to live and survive as a Christian, but it's a strategic. It's a strategic place for mission. We talked about that last night. Ray Bakke, an urban minister and also a man who's written a couple of great books on being a Christian in the city, he wrote a book called The Urban Christian, and he wrote a book called Theology as Big as a City. They're both really great books, primers almost on what it means to be a Christian in a city. They're both still available through InterVarsity Press, and they're low, pretty inexpensive. He says that people don't realize that in the new... In the New Testament, we have the synoptics, of course. Now, the word synoptics, it means to see together,

and the synoptic gospels are Matthew, Mark, and Luke,

who are all looking at the same thing with slightly different perspectives. They recapitulate the same account of Jesus' life and death. Very, very similar, and yet just a bit different. Now, Ray Bakke says what most people don't seem to realize is there was also a... There are synoptics in the Old Testament, three perspectives on the same event. The event was the rebuilding of Jerusalem after the exile. In other words, rebuilding and renewing the city of Jerusalem after the exile. And Ray Bakke says there's actually three books about this, Ezra, Nehemiah, and Esther. He calls them synoptics because they're actually talking about the rebuilding of Jerusalem after the exile, but they come at it in three different ways. Ezra was a priest, and what Ezra did was he came and he did Bible study and preaching, and you might call it discipleship in order to spiritually renew Jerusalem. Nehemiah was a layperson who rebuilt the walls, and if you hadn't rebuilt the walls, in those days, you just couldn't have a city, you couldn't have civilization, because you needed safety. That's one of the things that I know is scary. It's weird for us to imagine that people used to go to... Cities for safety, for security. Now, today, we would consider cities less safe than suburbs, though. I think that's changing a little bit. In those days, you had to have a city wall in order for there to be safe streets, in order to have a secure basis for civilization. So, what actually happens is Nehemiah is working on safe streets. Nehemiah is rebuilding the city not by evangelism, discipling, and Bible teaching, but basically by actually working on the infrastructure. So, he's working on the infrastructure of the city, working for making it a safe place, making it a prosperous place. And then you have Esther and Nehemiah, then thirdly, you have Esther. And Esther was a woman who got into a fairly powerful position. She was Jewish, and she got into a powerful position. She was a queen. Now, if you actually read carefully, you'll see that she was a concubine who was a queen. Nevertheless, which doesn't quite fit any of our categories today, nevertheless, she used the power, at great risk to her life, at great risk to herself, the power that she had in this secular position for justice. She used that power at great risk to herself for God. And so, Ray Bakke likes to say, you see, that's the three ways that we're going to accomplish God's mission in the city. Ezra ministry, Nehemiah ministry, Esther ministry. There's evangelism and discipleship, that's Ezra ministry. There's holistic ministry to the common good, to material needs, to the poor, that's Nehemiah ministry. And there's thinking about God. So, we can So, we can So, we can So, we can So, we can

So, we can So, we can So, we can So, we can So, we can So, we can So, we can So, we can So, we can So, we can So, we can at some of these than others, that do all three of those. Partly because of our background, because we're Presbyterian, because we're Orthodox Presbyterian. We just are, in my own training, I just know infinitely, I was trained infinitely better in Ezra ministry than Nehemiah or Esther ministry. Infinitely better. In fact, I have to say that in seminary, those other two were virtually ignored. So as a leader, I'm behind. And if we go through this and you say, gosh, Redeemer is far better at one of these than the other two or far better at two of these than the other one, it's my fault. Because it's hard to rise above your leader and be better than your leader is, though I'm hoping it won't be long before that's the case. Now let's get started. What we're going to do is the rest of this morning and this afternoon, we're going to be trying to look at not proportionately completely, but to some degree we're looking at all three of these. Let's talk about what it means to be a missional church, period. Now what do I mean by a missional church? These two pages, 22 and 23, I'm going to go through line by line because they're so important. This is the context for everything else we say. Let's talk about Ezra ministry. Let's talk about what's called evangelism, sharing the faith with people so they individually can put their faith in Christ.

Over the years, a lot of people have visited Redeemer and noticed something. One of the things they noticed, this is particularly true in the early days, was the percentage of non-Christians or people who said, I'm not a Christian, or said, I don't know if I'm a Christian, who are all around the church. That is to say, they're in small groups, they're in the worship service, they're in our teams of people doing volunteer work, volunteer work in the city, and so forth. And often I had people ask, what's your evangelism program? If you probably, if you, I may be wrong on this, but if you, not that you have the time to do this, but if you looked around and say, probably every 15 or 20 faces here, if you got in a circle and said, how many of you became Christians at Redeemer, you'd probably find there's always, there's somebody at least in every one of those groups.

There's a lot of folks who became Christians, but there's a lot of folks who became Christians, who became Christians at Redeemer. So people would always say, what's your evangelism program? And there was no good answer I had. Two reasons. One is not only did we not really have any evangelism program, we never actually had any, up until now, we've never had a staff person, even who majored in evangelism or did anything in evangelism. I'm not saying I'm against it. I'm not bragging on that either. I'm just saying that during the years in which Redeemer saw more people come to faith in Christ than I ever thought would ever happen, And also more people come to faith in Christ, especially proportionately, to the size of our church, more people than I have ever seen anywhere else that I even know of. I mean, there certainly has been a - there was certainly a stretch of three or four years where that really happened in a way I've never heard of anywhere else or seen anywhere else. But what's your evangelism program? And who is your evangelistic staff? There wasn't any. So the question is, how did that happen? And if you look at the bottom of that middle paragraph under a missional church, see the question, who's doing the evangelism? The answer is not that we added evangelistic program to other things we've done, but rather everything Redeemer did and everything Redeemer does, worship, small groups, holistic ministry, education, community, has an evangelistic texture to it. The whole church itself has a missional form. Now, what do I mean by that? Now, what do I mean by that? Again, let's pull back just for a second and give the context. Leslie Newbigin was a missionary to India from Britain for many years. I mean, he was there from like the 1940s, I think, to like the 1980s. And when he retired and came back to Britain, in a sense, he'd left in the 40s and he came back in the 80s, he noticed something. In Europe and North America, in the Christianized - in Western culture, for centuries, the culture - the cultural institutions - the schools, the universities, all the institutions Christianized people. Now, what I mean by Christianized people is they taught Christian ethics, they assumed basic Christian beliefs. You know, Peter Drucker, for example, who was German, German business guru, a lot of you, and he's still alive, he's been around a long time, he's in his 90s. When he first moved to America to teach at NYU years and years ago, he moved into Hollywood. He moved to Hoboken in the 1930s, and he tells an interesting story. I heard him tell this once. He said when he went to get a bank loan to buy a house, the bank - this is in the late 1930s or mid-1930s - the bank official said, we would need a reference from a pastor or a priest or a rabbi. And Peter Drucker - see, what I'm about to tell you about was already moving - the dechristianization of Western culture.

So he went to work with Viet V of a church or a synagogue. And Peter Drucker was struck by that, and you should be too. He said, that wasn't that long ago. In other words, we used to live in a culture in which the culture Christianized people. That didn't mean they converted them. It just meant that they gave them a basic Christian worldview, a basic Christian view of reality, a basic Christian understanding. It gave them a Christian conscience, but not a Christian heart. That's another way to put it. But when Leslie Newbigin came back from India, he was a missionary, which meant he started churches in a culture that was completely not Christian. He started churches in a culture in which everyone who became a Christian had to deal with a culture that was completely unsympathetic to Christian sensibilities, thinking, worldview, et cetera. When he came back to Britain, he suddenly realized that now Western culture was not the same kind. The second kind of non-Christian culture is India. But it was now a non-Christian culture. People were not being Christianized. But the churches hadn't adapted. Because for centuries, churches assumed that the people who would come in their doors were folks who had been basically Christianized, were basically traditional, basically conservative in their way of thinking. And it was the church's job, simply, to kind of give a gospel presentation so that these people with Christian consciences could also get Christian hearts. And that's why, if you look down here at the bottom of the page, you'll see that there's a little bit of a text on page 22.

It said, Leslie Newbigin was a missionary in India. He retired as a native. He came to realize that the church was now in the same condition that the churches were in India, but they weren't acting that way. They still assumed that Christianized people would be coming through their doors, moral people, basically, and what they'd have to do is essentially give a gospel presentation. Now, almost all gospel presentations that have been made in India have been made in India. And some of them have been forged in America over the years. Assume that people already had something like a Christian worldview, something like an idea of guilt, for example, something like an idea that we needed to be decent people, and even something like an idea of there being an afterlife. The real problem, of course, is that if you don't have traditional people and Christianized people, you can't just have an evangelism program. You can't just have a gospel presentation. It takes a lot longer. I mean, Newbigin. Newbigin realized that people who had been raised in Hinduism who were going to become Christians or even be discipled into Christianity needed much more thorough and much longer process for both. You needed a long process for evangelism, and you needed a long process for discipleship because there was a need for deep worldview change, not just, you know, you're a sinner and you're saved this way, and you ask Jesus into your heart, but at a deeper level, there was a whole new way of thinking that had to be. You know, God meant something different to a Hindu than it does in the Bible. Sin means something different to a Hindu than it does in the Bible.

Reality, actually, has a different meaning to a Hindu than what's in the Bible. And so it takes a lot longer process. And Newbigin saw that you just still had these kind of little evangelism programs that you were supposedly supposed to use on people when they came in the door, but it assumed they were already Christianized, traditional, and so on. So let me give you an example. This is now in America, the same thing's happening. People actually are de-Christianized. They're not going to be able to get out of the church. They have a very different worldview. And churches are still kind of trying to evangelize people rather quickly, giving them a gospel presentation without worldview change. So for example, look at the second bullet point, the third bullet point on the page. For example, one of the things I discovered here in New York over the years, younger secular people are deeply committed to a worldview. It's different, by the way, than Hinduism, different than Confucianism, but different than the older traditional Western. And what's different about Hinduism is that it's a Christianized worldview, which is what I call expressive individualism. And you've heard me refer to it occasionally in sermons. Expressive individualism is this. Right and wrong is determined inside my self-consciousness. See, most other traditional world... Most other worldviews believe that right and wrong is determined outside. It's either God or natural law or, you know, Plato believed in the world of ideas and Confucius believed in something called... What he called heaven, which is something like, I think, what Plato believed, I'm sure, those of you who are better schooled than me would probably think that's an awful thing to say. But anyway, everybody else until recently, everybody said right and wrong is determined by something outside the self and it's the job of the self to conform to it, to discover what is right and wrong and conform to it. Expressive individualism says right and wrong is defined within the self, is defined within one's self-consciousness. Now, what often happens is people who haven't had that deep worldview change look like they become Christians, and maybe they do. You know, it's hard for me to tell. But they get converted through a kind of an evangelism program because perhaps they really have a spiritual need and they want to connect or they really feel guilty about something and they want some relief. But very often, within a couple of years, the person that's, you know, wept and said, oh, I've really become a Christian, they get the possibility of a new sexual partner they really want, they realize they can't really be consistent with their Christian profession, and so they drop it and off they go. You all know this. We've all seen it. We've seen it a lot in New York. We've seen it a lot in Redeemer over the years. And you say, what happened? And the answer is probably, look what I say down here, they believed Christ not because they thought he was the truth but because he was true for them, which is, in other words, they brought Christ into their unchanged worldview. They never really had a deep change of mind and heart at the worldview level. Now one of the reasons that an awful lot of the evangelical, American evangelical churches not experience the same kind of decline as Protestant churches in Europe and Catholic churches in Europe is because they're not satisfied with what's happening in America. So we can't even So we can't even

So we can't even

So we can't even So we can't even So we can't even

So we can't even So we can't even So we can't even So we can't even So we can't even So we can't even So we can't even So we can't even So we can't even So we can't even So we can't even who say sism and people who say schism.

The fundamental schism in America is over how to pronounce schism, but probably not. Actually, no, that's not true. There's probably a more fundamental schism. There's a fundamental schism in American cultural, political, and economic life. There's the quicker growing, economically vibrant, morally relativist, urban oriented, culturally adventuresome, sexually polymorphous, and ethnically diverse nation.

And there's the small town, nuclear family, religiously oriented, white-centric other America with its diminishing cultural and economic force. Two nations. By the way, when Wolf was talking about this, he was talking about people who watch Fox News versus CNN.

And he was saying, and he says, obviously it's that second nation that watches Fox. And if you like Fox, you may be part of that. I'm not part of that second nation. Which is pretty interesting. And I don't know how far I push it on that. But I know he's right about the fundamental view. This fundamental view is right. And you see, because there are still places that produce Christianized people, the traditional church approach, which is just to kind of do things the way we've always done them, with a little evangelism program over there to kind of get people with a Christian conscience to have a Christian heart, still works. And as a result, you've got still, you still have an awful lot of churches that can continue to grow in numbers and grow in their budget and that sort of thing, and not really become missional at all. What they're really just doing is they are transferring people. In other words, one of the ways in the conservative regions of the world you grow is you just have a better youth program than anybody else in town and everybody comes. You have better music and the church grows. And if you have a traditional evangelism program where you just sort of do a gospel presentation, there are always people who are in a crisis at the moment and they know that they really should be Christians. But they're not and they give themselves to Christ and you can all, you see conversions without really becoming a thoroughly changed missional church. Well, what do I mean by a thoroughly changed missional church? Here's what I mean. The church has got to become such that every part of its life is hospitable to people who are not believers or who don't know what they believe. So they can come in to the groups and into worship and into virtually everything we do and not feel comfortable. So even though we can be busy with things them. In the traditional church, a person who's not a Christian, especially a person who's not even Christianized in their worldview, finds almost everything that happens in the church at least incomprehensible, inexplicable, and confusing, and at worst, deeply offensive. Everything. There's an offensive core to the gospel that you just can't, you know, diminish, but there's an awful lot of stuff that the traditional church does that's really just tribal. You just, you create a Christian subculture unnecessarily. I'm going to try to show you here in a second. That's what's got to be changed. By the way, just to give you a quick example of this, the way people become Christians in a non-Christianizing society is by a process. Now, by the way, I do not mean that there isn't a place where a person crosses from death to life.

There is no doubt that there's some place, obviously, where you're trusting Christ where it is before you weren't. So I'm not trying to say that actually regeneration is a process. Either the Holy Spirit's in you or it's not. But what happens, of course, is so in where we are today is there's a process of many decisions that have got to be made to come up to the place where the Holy Spirit enters. And in these processes, it's not that easy always to tell where the Holy Spirit enters. In other words, if there's about 30 many decisions, that the person has to go through from not believing at all to believing, we're never completely sure just where the Holy Spirit enters. And that's all right. It's not your job to be sure. But just to give you an example, this is the way I have seen over the years in New York, people who don't have the Christianized background, how they become Christians is through a series of many decisions. The first stage is awareness, where they're starting to say, oh, so this is what Christianity is all about. That's an amazing, importantly important thing to do. The average person in America, even the most un-Christianized person in America, thinks they understand Christianity, and they don't. It's a huge, important hurdle to get over to make them feel, and I think this is absolutely true, I'm not trying to, I'm not saying make them feel, help them see that they really don't understand Christianity well at all. So it first of all has to become an awareness of what it is. Secondly, what is necessary is they need to begin to realize why and how it connects to the deepest needs of their own world. And that's what I'm trying to do. And I think that's what I'm trying to do.

So they have to say, this is it. Then they have to say, and I need it. Thirdly, they have to say, I need it because it's true. You can't jump over this. If you jump over this in our modern Western culture, what you actually have is someone who's really using Jesus to feel better. And they'll drop it, even after they seem to have become, you know, really vibrant Christians, and two years later, they're out forever. And it's because they jumped over this, because they basically did not have a worldview change. They have to say, this is it. I need it because it's true. Then you have to, at least in New York, I find there's a period of time in which people actually try Christianity on. It's a little bit, I think, like driving a car that you haven't bought yet. Or it's a little bit like trying a dress on, you know, to see what it looks like, though you haven't bought it yet. And very often, very often you'll find somebody that you've been talking with about, and they've been in your small group or something, and they start talking like they're a Christian. You go and say, have you, like, tied the knot with Jesus here? I mean, have you, you know, are you just dating, or have you, are you just dating Jesus, or have you married Jesus? I mean, and very often the person says, well, no, not really, but, you know, I'm still thinking about it. And what you can tell is that they're sort of trying. Well, if I was a Christian, what would it be like? How would I handle this issue, handle this problem? At some point, the person says, I take it. And then you have reinforcement to try to figure out what exactly it means. And it's not that easy to tell quite where a person is, but that's the sort of thing that happens. And it can only happen if they come into a community. So basically, people need to be able to be, come into a community that's hospitable to them, to their questions, their doubts, to their issues, and so forth. It's quite a balancing act, but that's what's got to happen. Now, what are the features of a church? And I'm not talking about programs here. What are the features of a church that is hospitable in that way? Now, I want to give you six, I think. Yeah, there's seven. Seven qualities of a missional church. So, here they are. First one. Now, we talked about this last night, but it's actually, let me, I'm just, I'm going to try to build this on experiences. You have to have a positive view of the place where everybody else lives. One of the things I discovered when I first got here was an awful lot of the Christian churches, because I visited them. I came up here on a train probably one day a week for almost three years before I moved here to start a church. I was in Philadelphia. So, I was trying to get to, and I came to realize something. There's a lot of Christians that moved to New York City, and they were here because they had to be, and they hated the city. They didn't like the city. It was dark. It was wicked. Nobody believed. They got into their churches, and their churches were somewhat dumb. Therefore, the churches were dominated by an attitude. You could tell about it in the way the jokes went. You could tell about it just by offhanded comments. It was really, the whole church was filled with people who didn't like New York City, and they were basically huddling together for warmth in a cold, spiritual place. And I also realized that most of the people who weren't Christians who lived and worked in New York City liked it. And the people who were, generally speaking, this is not just true of Christians. The more religious people don't like New York. Whether you're a religious Hindu or Muslim, Orthodox Jews are different because they've actually created a counterculture. But most very religious people don't like it. The irreligious people do like it. So if an irreligious person comes into your situation, your setting, and hears people downing New York City, that's not a hospitable place for them. And I came to realize, actually, I just would talk up the city enough, and because I do love the city, and I also think the Bible, I gave you some cases for it last night. I think God loves the city. And if a Christian came in, in the early days of Redeemer, and didn't like all that positive city talk, and I actually got some kind of nasty letters saying that this is a wicked place, and it's terrible, and you shouldn't be talking like that. I did. But those folks left, and I realized it probably would be good that they left because they would not make this a hospitable church for the people who are here. Secondly, that's short because we talked about that last night. Secondly, ah. Now, I'm going to step on some toes, as they used to say in the South. You know, some of my older people in Hopewell used to say, preacher, you stepped on my toes today. And I never quite knew what that meant. So, but older males from North Carolina used to say that to me all the time. And I never penetrated the cultural meaning of it. Why didn't the older females from North Carolina say that? I don't know. Anyway, discourse and the vernacular. All right. In Christendom. When Western culture was Christianizing people, there was an enormous amount of biblical literacy. And that is to say, a lot of people understood biblical allusions and they understood biblical language, et cetera. You know, Chuck Colson actually tells a story about the fact that when the Germans,

someplace in World War II, when the Germans asked the British to surrender at some point. Where was that? Was it Dunkirk? Anyway, the British commander, all that the British commander wrote was the words, but if not. And not only did a lot of British people, when they heard about it in the press, were galvanized by it, but the German commander understood it. Do you? It's from Daniel. It's the place where Nebuchadnezzar says, you're going to have to bow the knee and worship me and renounce your God. And you know what? Daniel. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego actually said, was they said, well, you know what? We're not going to do it. And God might deliver us. He might give us victory here. But if not, we're still not going to bow the knee to you. And people were so biblically literate that people knew that story. Chuck Colson uses it just to show what's happened. Well, okay. The fact of the matter is that, therefore, people who don't, aren't Christianized, don't understand biblical allusions and that sort of thing. But meanwhile, the church has developed its own kind of subcultural jargon. And I put down here, I'm going to go through this with you. Please. This is on the middle of page 25. A missional church does not avoid the use of biblical terminology, but takes great pains to explain such terms in ways they're readily understandable to those without theological background. Especially avoiding citing the Bible or making explanations with a tone of, well, every intelligent person knows this. In fact, I don't know if you noticed this. But if I say, Jesus Christ died to turn aside the wrath of God upon us. I never go by something like that without saying, I know that sounds outrageous to many of you. If I know it sounds outrageous to people in the world today, I'll say that. That acknowledgment is very important. Because if I just say, you know, Jesus Christ died to assuage the wrath of God against us, and just go on. The average New Yorker who's not a Christian who's sitting there thinks it's outrageous because I don't acknowledge that. What he or she hears me saying is, and of course we all know that. And anyone who knows anything knows that. I'm not acknowledging the emotion. I'm not validating the emotion. I'm not showing that I understand why it would sound outrageous. Or that it sounds outrageous. That's part of a missional mindset. Is number two, the missional church avoids ever talking as if non-believing people are not present. We always, always expect to be overheard by members of the non-believing press.

In other words, I say, well, how will this sound? I'm a New York Times reporter. Why say something that I know will be misunderstood? Well, just be careful. Just explain myself. In fact, if we speak in discourse as if our neighbors are in our midst, eventually our neighbors will be brought. Or they'll show up. But you see, there's a lot. In the typical church, you come in and you say, I really get a lot out of this church. But you know intuitively that your non-Christian neighbor or, you know, hallmate or other person you know would find it offensive. So you don't bring them. We're not a church like that. We've got to be a church where if you speak and talk as if the neighbors are here as well as the Christians, eventually the neighbors will come. Otherwise, they won't. But let me keep on going. Third, a church has to avoid tribal language. Now, what do I mean by tribal language?

Unnecessarily stylized evangelical pious jargon, an archaic language that seeks to set a spiritual tone. For example, saying, We're just really, really trusting that the Lord is going to give us a blessing today. Now, why have you never heard me say that ever? some of you feel like he just sounds like you know he doesn't have he doesn't he doesn't set a very spiritual tone that for the church doesn't set a spiritual tone we never talk about i just know the lord is going to be here to bless us why don't we say that now first of all is it biblical is this something we're called to do of course it's not and let me put let me give you two reasons why it's a bad idea to get into it on the one hand let me show you that it gives false assurance to people in the church in fact it gives false assurance to the speaker that they're spiritual an awful lot of times pious talk masks a an unchanged heart the marker for spirituality should not be what you say but how you live so for example an awful lot of people who speak about constantly being blessed are dogmatic and cold or can't control their tongue who are not able to control their tongue who are not able to control their tongue who are stingy with money, deeply suspicious, very defensive and touchy, never follow through on their promises, and inordinately critical of others. Now, those are all a lack of fruit of the Spirit.

There's nothing worse, and irreligious people can see it, a person who talks incredibly spiritually and yet doesn't have fruit of the Spirit in their life. They're just like everybody else except the way they talk. And what that does, I believe, in an awful lot of churches, it gives false assurance to the speakers. Speakers, when you pick it up, you come into the church and you start to pick it up, you feel spiritual. It is often also the case that people who use pious language are also doing it to keep others from ever questioning their statements or actions. Dick Lucas, a friend of mine who used to be a pastor at St. Helen's Church in London, he says he got so irritated after a while, he said, finally somebody said, the Lord's really laid this on my heart to talk to you about this.

And Dick Lucas said, well, the Lord hasn't told me a thing about it. And therefore, I might disagree with you. See, because he realized that when people say, the Lord's really laid it on my heart for me to say this, what they're really saying is, now, you better not think that this is a bad idea. He says, you're pulling yourself above contradiction. Pious talk is bad in an awful lot of ways. That doesn't mean to say, I really think God is leading me to say this, but I could be wrong. That's not pious talk. But the Lord has told me. And Dick would say, the Lord hasn't told me, so I guess we're going to have to come down and talk about it like two human beings.

Secondly, pious talk gives non-Christians a false belief that this is what it takes to be a Christian. When they hear language that's extremely sentimental, somewhat manipulative, which it is, or just obscure and confusing, it makes them feel that adopting such talk and attitude is crucial to becoming a believer. And they say, I could never talk like that. I could never be like that. It really muddies the waters. Really. It definitely puts an unnecessary barrier up there. That's not really what makes the difference between a Christian and a non-Christian, how they talk. It should be, first of all, their character. The fact that they are more kind. They are more wise. They are more happy. They are more balanced. They are more humble than anyone else they know. When people see that difference in your life, then they say, wow, there's something going on here. That's what you should be concentrating on. Also. The church avoids we-them language, which is disdainful jokes that mock people of different politics and beliefs.

So, unless all this is done, as the outflow of the gospel changed heart, which we talked about at the last conference, it's just marketing. You understand? You can't do this because you say, oh, that's right, we don't want to offend non-Christians. That's not it. The gospel should take away the pomposity. The gospel should take away the manipulativeness. The gospel should take away. You need to manipulate people with the spiritual language. The gospel should take away your sort of your tribal pride by which you demarcate that I'm on the inside and you're on the outside. It should take those things away. Otherwise, it's just marketing. That's second. And it's really important. And actually, I never quite know what to do about the fact that if you have been formed as a Christian in some other setting and you come to Redeemer, you don't drop this. And you don't notice it. You just notice that Tim Keller and a few other people kind of talk like non-Christians. But and it's kind of hard to know what are we supposed to do? I mean, Kathy wrote a wrote an article some years ago called Pious Babble. I don't know if any of you remember that. And she found a lot of people were pretty offended by it because it made her that said, I'm going to have to really now sort of think about how I talk at Redeemer. Not for Kathy's sake, not for my sake, really for the sake of being missional. Yes, please think about it. Why not talk like you talk at work? You know, why not talk like you talk with your neighbors? So that when you're when the people at work and people, you know, who are your neighbors come in, they're not going to feel immediately like the other capital O. Number three. The third is extremely important and maybe in some ways the most important, but a missional church. Enters and retells the culture story with the gospel. Enters and retells the culture story with it. What does that mean? All right. Let's talk about this for a second.

Everybody has a worldview. And the basic worldview.

Is an answer to this question. What's really wrong with the world and with people and what will set it straight?

The worldview is an answer to that question. Now you're going to be talking about this after the second after the last in the last workshop breakout time. But a worldview is an answer to the question. What's actually wrong with things and what will put it right? Confucianism is a worldview that basically says what will really put us in the right place. And the way we put everything right is family. The most important thing is family. Being true to your family. Having a family. Being in a family. Being loyal to your family. Making it the most important thing. Family. And if everybody's doing that, the world will be a great place. Western individual, Western, you know, secularism says the ultimate value, the thing that we really is individual freedom. That's what we've got to get. If everybody was free. If everyone was free, had the right to, you know, pursue their own life the way they saw fit and that sort of thing. Then the world would be a better place. The world would be a great place. Now, biblically, we know that what's happened in both those cases is a good thing has been turned into an ultimate thing. And that distorts. In other words, the Christian doesn't look at Confucianism and say, that's all wrong. They've taken a good thing and made it an ultimate thing. And Western individualism has taken a good thing, individual freedom, and made it an ultimate thing. But what this means is if you want to talk about Christianity into a culture in a way that's coherent, you don't just confront the baseline cultural narrative, the baseline world view. What you do is instead you connect Christianity to it and show how only in Christ can your deepest dream be realized. Only if Christ is more important than your family will you ever really have a happy family. Only if you are a slave to Christ will you ever actually be individually free. But now you notice that second little nutshell, you don't use that in China. Or maybe you will eventually. And that first little nutshell, you know, about the family, you don't use in Manhattan. I mean, in other words, you have to connect with the baseline cultural narrative. What's really wrong basically is most churches don't know how to connect with baseline cultural narratives because they actually don't, they have no sympathy for the world view of the people who don't believe. You ought to because the world view of the people who don't believe always has got all sorts of great stuff in it. We're all made in the image of God and good things have become ultimate things, but the ultimate things are good things. And therefore, there is an approach to Christianity which basically just confronts the cultural narrative. Say, you know, you're all wrong and we're right. But generally speaking, the gospel in your mind, the gospel that you grew up with, was a gospel adapted to your culture. So if you're going to reach somebody in another culture, you actually have to change it again. I don't mean change the gospel. But I mean adapt the gospel to the new cultural narrative. So, quick example of this. Traditional people in this country, in fact, I can even go to my parents and my children. Okay, let's just talk about my parents and my children. My parents grew up in a setting that basically said the important thing is that you be good. The important thing is you be good. And gospel presentations from the 50s and 60s, like Billy Graham and Bill Bright and D. James Kennedy, all kind of assumed that people knew that. In other words, they connected to that baseline cultural narrative by saying, you know you ought to be good, but nobody's good enough. You fall down in so many ways. But through Jesus Christ, your sins can be forgiven so that you are good. You know, you're pardoned. You are made pure and clean. And then you'll be in Christ, you're good enough for Jesus, for God. And therefore, the gospel presentations from the middle of the 20th century all connected that baseline cultural narrative. Now, when it comes to my children's generation, that's not what they're saying in their deep heart of hearts. They're not saying that the meaning of life is to be good. What they say is the meaning of life is to be free. And therefore, what you have to do is not just simply give the old gospel presentation that hit the cultural narrative of the older generation. You have to connect to the baseline narrative here. And what is that baseline narrative? And that is that put it this way, what you say to my parents' generation is, you think you're good, but you're not really good. Because if you're not living for Jesus, you can't be good enough. But in Jesus, you can be good enough for God. What you say to my children's generation is, you think you're free, but you're really not. Because you're serving something. You have to live for something. You think, oh, well, what I really want is art. What I really want is business. What I really want is romance. You're going to serve something, whatever that is. It's a master. It's a slave driver. You think you're free, but you're not free, only in Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is the only master that if you serve him will not oppress you. See? Now, of course, you recognize that second as the way I tend to preach. But, you know, what I'm trying to say is not simply that you've got to do it the way Tim does it, but that rather you have got to have enough sympathy and enough respect for the baseline cultural narratives around you and enough knowledge of what they are so that when you talk to people about the gospel, you connect to them with sympathy, but showing how it's only in Jesus where you actually get what you're looking for. Your story, the storyline of your culture will only actually have a happy ending in Jesus, whether you're a Confucianist, whether you're a Platonist, you know, whether you're a modern Western expressive individualist, whatever. That sounds like a lot? Yeah. Of course that's a lot. That's why you look at the top of page 28. Many Christians who are raised in more cloistered Christian settings have a great deal of trouble articulating their faith in ways that connect with the baseline cultural narratives. Of course. I got some ideas for that here on page 28, which obviously I can't go into. I don't have the time. But actually, I think in the future this is, to me, one of the things, I know this sounds kind of esoteric, if you've gone to evangelism training in the past, hmm? If you've ever gone to evangelism training, they almost always say, here's a gospel presentation, let me show you how to use it. And actually, I could give you five or six that I have over the years, you know, have really helped me a great deal. But I think in a missional church, in a missional situation, instead, the thing to do is to sit down and give people case studies of different kind of cultural narratives because in a place like New York, you're actually living with different ones all around you because it's so pluralistic here. And you have to ask yourself, how do you connect? That's evangelism training in a missional setting. And it's actually much more sophisticated. It's actually, you know, a little bit more, it's more challenging but demanding. That's where we are.

Fourth, evangelistic worship. A missional church is characterized by evangelistic worship. What do I mean by that? Let me read you the paragraph. God commanded Israel to invite the nations to join in declaring his glory. Zion was to be a center of world-winning worship for the people of Israel. Do you know how many places in the Old Testament, it doesn't just say, praise him all ye people, but what? Praise him all ye peoples. Because all through the book of Psalms, you see that Israel was supposed to call the nations to watch them worship. In other words, their worship was supposed to be attractive worship. Their worship was supposed to be world-winning worship. How can we do that? Now, I personally believe that since the ultimate thing that will change a person's life, a person's heart, is not right belief, though right belief is a means to an end. The end is worship. What's really wrong with you is you're worshiping the wrong things. Even if you're a Christian, you're worshiping something besides God. I mean, I am. There's plenty of things that I still, my heart just essentially adores too much. Things I look to in my heart of hearts that I'm actually adoring more than Jesus, or at least I'm sharing Jesus' glory with it. And if that's the ultimate basis of worship, I'm going to go back and look at this line. Obviously, my beliefs are supposed to lead to great worship, and therefore, there's no better place to show people what Christianity is all about, what faith is all about, than giving them, showing them worship, bringing them into worship, capturing them with worship, not just information, not just a meeting where you say, well, you're a Christian, you're not Christians and we're Christians, let's give you the information. The best thing you could possibly do is invite them in, as the Old Testament indicates, into world-winning worship. And that kind of worship has to be characterized by these things.

A, the quality of speaking and music has to be very high, because the better it is, the more inclusive it is. As you all know, if you come into a church service, I mean, Tom's going to be very happy I say this, if you come into a church service, and you know everybody there, because you're part of it, and little Sally gets up and does her clarinet piece, and she's 14 and it's terrible, but everybody knows her, because of the strong horizontal relationship, everybody's edified. Isn't it wonderful Sally's trying? Isn't it wonderful what she's doing? Isn't it wonderful what her family means to us? And you're edified. But I'll tell you one thing, is if a visitor comes in and sits down, doesn't know Sally worth it at all, that three minutes is not only a waste for him or her, doesn't feel included at all, because there's no transcendence. In other words, it's not moving him to worship in any way. It's not calling him to worship. It's terrible.

So if you want a service in which people who are complete strangers, non-Christians, guests and visitors feel really included, it means that every part of the service actually has to be well done. So that's very important. So the quality of the preaching, speaking, music has to be very high. There needs to be noble simplicity of language, not sentimental, austere, archaic or colloquial.

Emotion and sentimentality has to be there. It's got to be emotion. It's got to be engagement. But to a certain degree, just like I watch what I say, if non-Christians are present, so I make sure I'm not losing them or leaving them in the dust, right? I actually have to do the same thing with my expression of emotion, which the trouble is, of course, is older white people who are not Christians get utterly turned off by expressions of emotions. Non-Christian, older white people. And younger non-white people who are not Christians are not nearly as turned off by expressions of emotion. As time goes on, we always have to sort of look around and say, you know, is our worship still being inclusive to most people in New York? That will change, you see? This is not just, this is the way Tim likes to worship or this is the way Tom likes to worship. We really are trying to be a missional church. You need to know that. And then, lastly, you have to make sure that, and this is the first, if you weren't here at the first conference, I'm not sure you're going to get this, but you have to use the gospel to both solve people's problems who are Christians as well as call people who aren't Christians to believe. And you can do that. Because it's not just, if you're a Christian, the main thing you need each week is the gospel. Apply to your problem. If you've got a problem with bitterness, or if you've got a problem with anxiety, and you're a Christian, you need the gospel. The nice thing about understanding that is that when I preach the gospel in a worship service, then I'm not only able to apply it to non-Christians, but non-Christians get to hear it too.

Fifth, you've got to theologically train laypeople not just for their private life, but how to be Christians in their public life, how to be Christians in their jobs. We don't have to go into that because we have an entire talk on that. But you see, in a missional church, in old Christendom, you could say to people, all you have to do is come into us on the weekends and we'll tell you how to believe and be a Christian. And you didn't actually have to ask people. Think out what it means to be a Christian in business. Think out what it means to be a Christian in your art world. And partly because, under Christendom, the way things were done in the secular vocations wasn't nearly as much a departure from Christianity as it is today. So if you're a Christian and you're in a secular job, now to really be a Christian, you've really got to think out these things. What cultural practices are common grace and can be embraced? What cultural practices are antithetical to the gospel and must be rejected? And what cultural practices can be adapted or revised? See? That takes a lot of thinking. And churches or missional help you do that. I'm not sure we've done a very good job of it. At least we know we have to. Turn over to page 30. I'm watching my watch. I've got to stick on time. Six. Oh, okay. Look at the seventh one. There is nothing more important, if you're a missional church, than being nonsectarian. What I mean is, under Christendom, the way a church got its identity was to say, we're not like that church. In other words, Christians define themselves over against other Christians. That's how I knew who I was. I'm a Presbyterian, not a Baptist. I'm a Baptist, not a Catholic. But you see, that's the old days. When everybody was a Christian, practically, practically everybody thought they were Christians, the way you defined yourself was you defined yourself over against other Christians. Now we should define ourselves over against the world. Now we should define ourselves over against the world, which means there's nothing more important than for us not to bash other Christians, especially those who basically believe the gospel as well. It is critical in the way we plant churches. You know, in New York City, do you know that Redeemer gives money to Pentecostal churches to start Pentecostal churches in training? It gives money to Baptist churches to start Baptist churches. This shocks almost everybody, and it shocks me to realize that nobody's ever done this. But it's a witness to the world when we do that. When people come to me and say, you know, I go to Trinity Baptist or All Angels or Calvary Baptist and all that, and I really get a lot out of Redeemer, would you suggest I really go into a, but a Redeemer church plant? And I always say, our goal is to make New York a faith-filled city, which means renewal of hundreds of churches and new, hundreds of new churches all at once. So no, you don't have to go into a Redeemer church plant. Take what you're learning and make that church the best possible church it can be. That's really important. That mindset's got to be there. Lastly, and I've got to introduce something funny to you, is the sixth of the seven. We have to create Christian community, which is countercultural and counterintuitive. We talked about this a little bit last night. In a missional church, Christian community must go beyond just being a supportive group. We have to be an alternate society to the non-Christian culture around us. With sex, it means we have to avoid both the secular society's idealization of sex and the traditional society's fear of sex.

We also have to exhibit love rather than hostility or fear toward those whose sexual life patterns are different. How do we flesh that out, huh? Not easy, but we have to. That's what it means to be a counterculture, not just a Christian support group. With money, we have to promote radically generous commitment of time, money, and relationships and living space to social justice and the needs of the poor, the immigrant, the economically and physically weak. How do we flesh that out? And with power, we're committed to power sharing and relationship building, especially a way of treating the races equitably inside our community. And, let me just read you this, a missional church must be more deeply and practically committed to the deeds of compassion and social justice than traditional liberal churches, and more deeply and practically committed to evangelism than traditional liberal churches, and more deeply and practically committed to the deeds of compassion and social justice than traditional fundamentalist churches at the same time. The gospel makes the church impossible to categorize, huh? Because justification by faith brings deep, powerful psychological changes, right? As you know, we've talked about that over and over. Though I'm sinful, I'm accepted, this converts people. On the other hand, the gospel of the cross and the kingdom brings deep, powerful social changes. It defies the values of the world, power, status, and recognition of wealth. The gospel is triumph through weakness, wealth through poverty, power through service, huh? This changes our attitude toward the poor. It changes our attitude toward our own economic status and wealth and careers. This kind of church, a church more evangelistic than fundamentalist churches and more committed to social justice and sacrificial service than liberal churches, is profoundly counterintuitive to everybody. But that's the kind of church we have got to be. We have got to be. Not just Ezra, but Nehemiah ministry. Okay, if those seven things are happening, let me show that being missional goes beyond programs. Over the years, how can you have non-Christians in your small group if you're in a small group? Here's the answer. See where it says at the very bottom what makes a small group missional? A missional small group is not necessarily one which is doing some kind of specific evangelism program, though that is to be recommended. Rather, let's go through the seven. If its members love and talk positively about the city and neighborhood. If they speak in language that is not filled with pious tribal or technical terms and phrases nor disdainful and battled language. If in their Bible study they apply the gospel to the core concerns of literature and the stories of the people of the culture. Sorry, I read that wrong. If in their Bible study they apply the gospel, just as you're talking, just as you're talking in your discussion, you're applying the gospel to core concerns and stories of the people of the culture. Connecting, not just confronting, baseline cultural narratives and showing how in Christ they resolve. Four, if they're obviously interested in and engaged with the literature and art and thought of the surrounding culture. And can discuss it appreciatively yet critically. Five, if they exhibit deep concern for the poor and generosity with their money and purity and respect with regard to the opposite sex. Show humility toward people of other races and cultures. Six, they do not bash other Christians in churches. If that's the atmosphere of your small group, seekers and non-believing people from the city will be invited and will come and will stay and will explore spiritual issues and will incubate and will become believers. But if these marks are not in your small group, they won't be able to include non-believers. Only believers and traditional Christianized people. There it is. That's what it means to belong to a missional church.