The passage of scripture on which the teaching is based tonight is printed in your bulletin there. 2 Samuel, chapter 12, verses 13 to 25.

We're going through the book of, well, we're not going through a particular book, we're going through the life of David, and we're getting to every part of every major episode in his life. And today, tonight, this one comes up, and I just don't know why in the world it didn't come up last week on vacation and somebody else would have preached for me. But here it is, and here I am, and here you are. 2 Samuel 12, 13 to 25. Then David said to Nathan, I have sinned against the Lord. Nathan replied, the Lord has taken away your sin. You are not going to die, but because by doing After doing this, you have made the enemies of the Lord show utter contempt. The son born to you will die. After Nathan had gone home, the Lord struck the child that Uriah's wife had born to David, and he became ill. David pleaded with God for the child. He fasted and went into his house and spent the nights lying on the ground. The elders of his household stood beside him to get him up from the ground, but he refused, and he would not eat any food with them. On the seventh day, the child died. David's servants were afraid to tell him that the child was dead, for they thought, while the child was still living, we spoke to David, but he would not listen to us. How can we tell him the child is dead? He may do something desperate. David noticed that his servants were whispering amongst themselves, and he realized the child was dead. Is the child dead, he asked. they replied, He is dead. Then David got up from the ground. After he had washed, he put on lotions and changed his clothes. He went into the house of the Lord and worshiped. And then he went to his own house, and at his request they served him food and he ate. His servants asked him, Why are you acting this way? While the child was alive, you fasted and wept, but now that the child is dead, you get up and eat. And he answered, while the child was still alive, I fasted and wept and I thought, who knows, the Lord may be gracious to me and let the child live. But now that he is dead, why should I fast? Can I bring him back again? I will go to him, but he will not return to me. And then David comforted his wife Bathsheba and he went to her and lay with her. She gave birth to a son and they named him Solomon. The Lord loved him, pardon me, and he Lord loved him. And because the Lord loved him, he sent word through Nathan, the prophet, to name him

Jedidiah. And this is God's word. Friends, all I can tell you is that even though we can't get into all of it, this narrative is a honeycomb, just a honeycomb of insights, some disturbing, disturbing, some so comforting. All I can do is, look, this is a disturbing text. No thoughtful Christian can read this without it raising all kinds of questions in their mind, without really being very disturbed. But we deal with it not just because it's a chapter in the Bible. And any chapter in the Bible you have to deal with. Anybody on the face of the earth has to deal with anything that's in the Bible. But it's a chapter of real life. If you don't deal with it in the Bible, how are you going to deal with it in life? If you just turn away from it here, how are you going to deal with it? Because this is one of the questions, and let me put it to you as practically as possible. One of the questions that you will have if you are a believer, if you believe in God, one of the great questions is going to be,

God, you say I'm forgiven. then why is this happening to me? You say I'm forgiven. You say I belong to you. Then why is this terrible thing happening to me? At some level, you're going to ask that question somewhere, someplace.

And that's exactly what you have in verse 13 and 14. Through Nathan, God says, David, you're forgiven. I take your sin away, but your child will die. Now, that doesn't seem to be, that seems to be what they call in logic a non sequitur. It does not follow. You are forgiven. You're going to suffer. Wait a minute. Now, you see, if you don't deal with it here, what are you going to do, how are you going to deal with it in life? Because you're going to deal with that.

What does the text tell us? I don't want you to think that I believe that this text in particular or the Bible in general gives you enough information about suffering to dispel all the questions. Suffering is like a very dark room. The Bible will give you enough light, not to see into every corner, not to see everything that's in the room, not to answer all your questions, but enough light to live by. Enough light to walk by. So you don't stumble and fall and knock your teeth out. There's enough light to live by, in this text in particular and in the Bible in general. see. The story, I shouldn't have to explain it. The story that precedes this verse, where it says, then David said to Nathan, I've sinned against the Lord. Very famous story. David the king fell in love with Bathsheba. Bathsheba was the wife of one of his best friends. Problem. He had an affair with her. She got pregnant. When she got pregnant, he arranged for his friend to be isolated out in soldier so that he was killed. Then he married Bathsheba and she bore an infant son. Nathan the prophet comes to David and in one of the great texts, one of the classic texts of the Bible, tells David a story. He says, King David, there was a man that had, was rich and had many sheep and there was another man who was poor and had one little lamb. And the man who had many sheep stole the one poor little lamb of the man with only one and killed and ate it. What should we do? with that man. And David said, that man should be drawn and quartered. That man should be strung up by his thumbs. That man should be flayed alive and so on. And Nathan said, thou art the man. David's devastated. David's convicted. And David says, I have sinned against the Lord.

Now, God says, I'm going to strike your son. And his little boy got fatally ill and died. that when David went through this grief process, look at verse 16, he got on the floor. They couldn't get him off the floor. See, verse 16, he got on the floor and they could never get him up. When TWA Flight 800 crashed that week in the Time magazine that came out, they ran an article, a one-page essay, by a woman named Susan Cohen who had lost her only child, in the wreck, in the explosion of Pan Am, Flight 103 over Lockerbie, seven and a half years ago. And she wrote a one-page essay about what she went through. And it's so striking to be studying this and read what she said, because she said, when she came and they told her what happened, she said, if I'd had a gun, I would have shot myself. She said, but all I could do was cry, scream, and crawl along the corridor floor of my motel.

same thing as David. All he could do was cry and scream and crawl along the floor. In fact, in Psalm 51, which is the chronicle of what happened to David during this time, if you want to see his prayer journal, go to Psalm 51. In Psalm 51, he says, The bones thou hast broken. He talks about the fact, and it's a vivid spiritual, it's a vivid metaphor. metaphor. At a time like this, you can't get up. All I could do, she said, was cry and scream and crawl along the corridor floor. I can't get up. Spiritually speaking, David says, it's like my bones were made of dust. My bones had been crushed. I couldn't stand on my feet. And any parent who goes through this, any parent who goes through this is going to feel the same way. But what's fascinating is if you read this article in Time Magazine, at the end, she essentially says, seven and a half years later, she's never gotten up. It's a painful, it's a powerful, it's a wonderful article, actually, in many ways, incredibly insightful. I'd like to get back to it someday, talk about her insights, about what she calls the psychobabble grief scam, and how much she hated the grief counselors that the insurance company kept sending her, and how they said, said, you know, you've got memories. You can face the world with hope now. And he said, there's got to be some good that comes out of this. I said, you've got to be strong. You've got to get back into life. Who said all these things. And she, it was so shallow, so superficial, and she hated it. And she, sometimes she had to have her husband throw them out. Grief counselors. But then she said, in the end, she's still on the floor. She's still living a life of hell. She says, no good has come out of it. I can hardly face the day. I'm suffering. My grief has never gotten better. And yet David gets off the floor. All we know is that when he went down there, he was desperate. But when he got back, he was completely in control. I am not, by the way, saying that grief processes only take seven days. I don't think the text is teaching this. There's all sorts of differences between people and times and cultures and so on, David got something when he was on the floor that this lady didn't. What was it? He got something because he got up and he worshipped. My experience as a pastor dealing with people because I do funerals and because as a pastor I work with people going through grief, my experience is that when people lose a child, they either come up saying, saying, I hate you, and they're too angry to go to worship. Or they come up saying, I hate me, and they're too guilty to go to worship. But David got up with an amazing amount of poise and a tremendous amount of self-control and obviously a tremendous amount of peace and worship. And more than anything else, I can't believe it, he went in, it says, and he comforted his wife. It didn't say he tried to comfort her. He comforted her. What did he get down there?

What did he get down there that he could give to her and heal her? What did he get down there that healed him?

Actually, from the text, from the context, and especially from Psalm 51, which is the prayer journal of what happened to him, I would suggest to you there's at least three things that he learned when he was on the floor so that he was able to get up. And if you know these same three things, you'll be able to get up. To know these things, my dear friends, I don't care how great a Christian you might be, to know these three things does not keep you off the floor.

When Jesus Christ saw Lazarus dead, when Jesus Christ saw all the people wailing and mourning, it doesn't say, Jesus says, ah, if you just have faith, everything's okay. If you only knew what I know. he wept. He went down into the grief with everybody. To know these things does not keep you off the floor, but to know these things will bring you back from the floor. Here are the three things. First thing he learned, and this is a very easy one to see, though a hard one to accept, very easy to see. First thing he learned was, God said to him very directly, what's happening to you now is not payback, it's surgery. surgery. First thing he says is, he says, this is not payback, this is surgery. And here's where you see it. Now, I want you to look at this very carefully or you're not going to believe me. In verse 13 and 14, look, Nathan replied, and he's a prophet, so this is God speaking. He says, the Lord has taken away your sin, you're not going to die. Now, let's see what that means. Taking away your sin, of course, is metaphorical, but it is in the Old Testament, in the Bible, it is incredibly specific in its meaning, tremendously precise. Taking away your sin does not mean that somehow it's a physical thing that has been taken away in some physical way. What God is saying is, I don't see it. I don't remember it. Very, very specific. And here's what that means. God is simply saying, I forgive you. Let me put it another way. He says, I am no longer treating you as a condemned man. I am not paying you back. I am not exacting a debt. I am not giving you what you deserve. I am not visiting you with retribution. This is not a quid pro quo.

I have taken away your sin from my eyes.

And then, you see, Nathan, in order to make this clear, he says, you are not going to die. Now there's a whole lot more in there than it looks. Of course, what Nathan means, obviously we can see right away, David was being treated by God as he deserved, if he was being treated as a condemned sinner, if God was saying, now let's see, what can I do to exact the debt you owe me? What can I do to make you pay? First of all, he would lose his life. But he would also lose his kingship. He would lose his relationship with God. And most of all, and this whole text cannot be understood unless you understand this, this. David would have lost his mission in life, and his mission in life is to bear the line of the Messiah. To bear the line of the Messiah. In 2 Samuel chapter 7, God comes to David and makes this amazing statement. Now, he said this to Abraham, he said it to Isaac, he said it to Jacob, he said it to a number of people. But he said, from you will come one who will save the world. One of your descendants, to him, I will be his father. He will be my son. His throne will last forever. God says this to David. Basically, here's what God is saying. David, you're going to save the world through your family. Through your family. You are going to nurture and bear the line through which I will bring about the Messiah. Now, he said this to Abraham. He said this to Isaac. This is a tremendous privilege. a tremendous joy. This is David's mission. He knows about this. My goal in life is to read every nonfiction book in the world, and my wife's goal in life is to read every fiction book in the world. We never read the same things, obviously. Believe it or not, there's one fiction book I've read that she's never read. I can't get her to read. It's J.R.R. Tolkien's book The Silmarillion, which is a kind of remote and difficult body of old legends and myths that he wrote and put I remember so much in one of these tales in which there's two friends, two heroic friends, and they're standing in the midst of a battle and they're about to lose the battle. There's an enormous evil force that's going to overwhelm them. And one of the friends suddenly realizes he's going to die. He gets a premonition of death and he turns to his friend and he says, I have the foresight of death. And I say to you, save yourself. Get out of here. because our hope isn't here today. Oh no. He says, I can see now that from you and from me a new star will rise. Now the way the legend goes, the friend does leave and the friend thinks about what this means and the friend realizes that from his descendant, the two friend's descendants are going to marry and from their descendants will come the Savior. A star will rise. The only way that their people will be saved will be is if he nurtures his family, and he goes back and he creates a kingdom, and he realizes, I'm going to save my people. I'm going to save the world through my family.

God is saying through Nathan, I'm not taking away your life. I'm not taking away your kingship. I'm not taking away your mission. I'm not taking away your relationship. The death of a child is a terrible thing, but I'm not giving you what you deserve. Your sin has been taken away from me. This is not a payback. back. But what is it? Now, look at the second part. He says, but because. Now, this word because, I've been thinking about for at least a week. Because by doing this, you have made the enemies of the Lord show utter contempt, the son born to you will die. The child will die because of the contempt. But wait a minute. Now, fortunately, there's a little word in here at the beginning of verse 14, but. And that word shields verse 14 from verse 13. If you didn't have verse 13, you would think what God is saying is, you dishonored me and therefore I'm going to hurt you. You dishonored me, I'm going to hurt you. You sinned and I'm going to pay you back. But verse 13 says, I will not do that. And verse 14 begins with a but, which means I'm changing. A new system, a new approach, a new issue. Even though you're not being paid back, there's something wrong with your heart that has to be repaired. See, this is the New International Version of the Bible that I have in here. It's a translation of the Old Testament that we often use. And they translate this text, you've made the enemies of the Lord show contempt. If you have a New International Version of the Bible there, you'll see there's a little text note at the bottom that says, contempt. The problem is the Hebrew is a little difficult to translate. The manuscript, there's some difficulties. Without going into that, this is the point. The sense is the same. Nathan is saying, David, by your contempt, you have brought contempt on the Lord. This word contempt, what does it mean? It means to take the Lord lightly. Think for a minute what's wrong with David. What kind of man would have his best friend killed and justify it, rationalize it? What kind of man would jeopardize his whole family? I mean, he has brought incredible grief down into his family life, which is the thing through which God is supposed to save the world. And his kingship. If this gets out, this would completely undermine the people's confidence in him. Israel is at the precipice. precipice. What kind of man would do this kind of thing? As stupid, as foolhardy, as ridiculous as this? A driven man, a weak man, a needy man, a man so needing, say, sexual affirmation, so needing a sense of power, whatever. He needed it so bad. This is not a free man. And Nathan is saying this. You have treated God lightly. God has become a cipher to you. God has become a symbol. God has intellectual concept. There is no reality of God left in your life. You can talk it. You can write wonderful psalms. He's gone. As a functional, operational reality in your life, he's gone.

If God hadn't been a light thing, if he'd been a heavy thing, if he'd become a real thing, if he had been glorious in your eyes, when you were tempted by Bathsheba, you would have said, wow, beautiful. But God has crowned me with honor and God has given me all this. How can I...

Listen, if God is a reality to you, you are an absolutely free person. You can face anything because there's nothing that you so need that it can drive you, it can make you do stupid things. It can't make you do fearful things, it can't make you do cowardly things, it can't make you do dishonest things. dishonest things. Who does these things? All of us. Why? Because God isn't real to us at the moment. Nathan says, you treated me lightly and now, politically, Israel is right on the edge. Something has to be done to heal you. Something has to be done to bring you back.

everything, even the messianic line is on a precipice. We've got to do something about this. I was reading a book by Larry Crabb, a Christian psychologist called Finding God, and I was amazed at the dedication. Do you read the dedications of books? I never do, and now I'll always read the dedication, because this is what he said. Get this. This is the beginning of the book. He says, It says, to the memory of Dr. Charles Smith, a mentor who prayed for his cancer to return if it would bring him closer to God.

And in his last year, he found God in a measure he had never known before. And then he died of cancer.

Now, if that seems ridiculous to you,

it means, with all due respect, it means you don't know what the reality of God is that David had lost. reality of God, you have everything. And if you do not have the reality of God, you have nothing, no matter what you think you have. Nothing is worse losing that. And God says, because you've lost it, I have to do this. I'm doing this because you've lost it. I'm doing it. This is not a payback. This is surgery. Okay? That's the first thing he learned. But what was it surgery on? Here's the second thing. The second thing we look at, a lot of you are going to say, but why did the kid have to die? I don't get it. All right, here's the second point.

What does suffering do surgery on? It always does surgery on your trusts.

Let me put it this way. What is suffering? Now somebody's going to say it's pain. pain. What if my shoulder kind of hurt? And I went to the doctor, and the doctor looked at the shoulder, and the doctor came out and says, Tim, I have terrible news for you. I've examined you, and I want you to know that you've done a certain kind of damage to your shoulder. And I don't know how to break the news to you, Tim, but you're never going to be able to play golf again. You can putt, but you won't be able to swing that driver. And I'm going to say, oh, doctor. And I say, wait a minute. I don't play golf.

What else can't I do? Oh, everything else. I mean, it's just that golf swing. It's the one thing you'll never be able to do again. This is not suffering for me. Okay. All right. Okay, yeah, but what if I'm a PGA professional?

See, suffering is completely relative, actually. What is suffering? something that you trust in, something that you rely on. Why do people get on the floor when they suffer? Why do they find themselves on the floor? Because the thing they were leaning on most has collapsed.

There's a physical image of the spiritual reality.

The only thing that makes you suffer is when something that you trust really, really, really collapses. relaxes. Now, here's the difference between terrible suffering and unbearable suffering. Here's the difference between very difficult suffering and suffering that completely overthrows you. When good things that you love are, are you lose, you suffer. And when things that you ultimately trust, when things that you worship, when the things that really are the root of your, your personality, the things that really, really make you go, when they go, it becomes intolerable. That's the reason why Paul, this morning in the text that we preached on here, in 2 Thessalonians chapter 1, and I didn't even mention this, but there's an interesting place where Paul says, we know that you are one of God's children. We know you are saved. We know that you're Christians because you're facing suffering with strength. How can Paul say that? Well, it's very simple. You know that you believe in the true God when suffering, though it hurts you doesn't destroy you. Because your suffering can only destroy you if your God is destroyed. The most important thing is destroyed. Do you see that? If God's the most important thing to you, you can't be destroyed. You can face everything. God was no longer the reality for David. God was no longer that reality. And therefore, he was vulnerable. And everybody in this room is vulnerable, to the degree that God is not. You see, the pearl of great price, the most precious thing. Suffering always is surgery on your trusts. That's the reason why suffering is almost the only fast way and only, I don't know, profound way to radical personal change. Because only suffering shows you what you're made of, shows you who you are, shows you what you're really about. Suffering and that only. Now, Now, right away, that brings us to ask ourselves, why in the world was David, in order to have that surgery done on him, in order to save him, in order to save Israel, in order to save everything, why did this boy have to die? And I don't know. Now, you know what? As a Bible expositor, that bugs me. The text doesn't tell me.

But as a Christian, it makes an awful lot of sense because the Bible tells us that if you're a believer, there's a redemptive connection in your suffering. progress of redemption in your life and in the world, and how God, through suffering, helps you reorient yourself to the one trust that makes you absolutely invulnerable. There's a redemptive connection. God came to Abraham and said, Abraham, little boy Isaac has to die. Why? You know, it's pretty easy to see with Abraham. Abraham. Abraham was an old man when Isaac was born, and he had completely built his life around him. And you do not have to be a Christian. You do not have to know this from the Bible. Any counselor will tell you, if an adult makes a child their emotional God, their emotional center, if any adult makes a child the moon and the sun and the stars and heaven itself, and this child is what gives you all your meaning in life, you will ruin this child, and the child will ruin you. If you treat anything but God as God, it will ruin you and you will ruin it. And so God comes and says, Abraham, until you make me, love me more than Isaac, you'll never be able to love Isaac without killing him. Abraham, if redemption is going to go forward and the world is going to be saved, your son has to die. Abraham got ready. God says it doesn't have to happen. Now what's going on with David? The same thing, I don't know, but I do know something. Here is my best guess. Take it for what it's worth. I've thought about this for a long time and read about this for a long time. Why did David go after Bathsheba? You know what? I don't think it was just sex by any means. If you read all the text, you will see that David had never had a satisfying relationship with a woman. Being who he was and the time and culture in which he lived, he had many wives. Every one of them was a bust. And he finds one, and suddenly, oh my gosh, the sexual connection, the personal connection, the one, and she's married. And here's what David decided. David said, God wants me to be happy. God wants me to have a happy family life. God wants to save the world through my family. This has got to be the one. But there's the law of God that says I'm not allowed to commit adultery and all that sort of thing. I'm sorry, I cannot trust God.

I cannot trust God to be good to me. to bear my best interests in mind. I'm going to have to take my life into my own hands. I know what's best for me, and he did. And now everything was about to fall apart. It was getting out, what he had done. He wasn't going to be king. Israel was going to fall apart. And he looks at God, and he says, Lord, Psalm 51, you want to see it? He says, against thee and thee only have I sinned. And when you read that, you say, what? What about Uriah? saying? David is saying the sin beneath all the sins was character assassination. God, I didn't think you were good. The idol is I thought I was competent enough to know what was best for me. I didn't trust your goodness. I trampled on it. I didn't believe in it. I've made a mess of my life. And that is the sin beneath all the sins. And that is if I obey God and my life is going hard, That means God doesn't love me. I'm going to have to take things into my own hands. And you will make a wreck of your life if you do. And God has to show him. And therefore the child dying is not just the child that is an idol, though maybe the child would have been an idol. But it's the idol of him trying to build a family, not on God, taking his life in his own hands. His idol is his competence that he thought he had to run his life without God. and everything was resting on that and God came and showed him, no. The surgery was on his trusts. Now lastly, what was the scalpel? Well, we've already said it. When he was on the floor, he saw that God was a God of grace. When he gets up, he's poised and calm and what does he say? He says, I thought that maybe, maybe, like with Abraham, him, the kid only had to get close to dying. And all I had to do was finally say, Lord, I put you first. And maybe the kid could still live. He says, maybe God in his grace would have let the child live. You see that? He says, I thought the Lord might be gracious to me and let him live. You see that? A wonderful word. Now, if you think, and I certainly did when I first read this, that this means that God was not gracious to him. No, no. When David says this, what David means is, if the child lived, it would have been nothing but grace. Think for a minute. Do you know what that means? He is saying it's not unjust for him to die.

He doesn't say, I thought God would give me justice, and he hasn't. No, he says, for this child to live would be nothing but grace, but actually God has been... What does that mean? It means that he's not demanding justice from God. He sees now everything God is doing is a matter of grace. That's the only reason why he gets up, not saying, no, no, but saying, let me go worship.

If you have a religion of good works, if you believe, this is what a religion of good works is, I try my best and now God should bless me. If that's your understanding of religion, when this sort of thing happens, as I said in the beginning of the sermon, God after a time like this because you will either be mad at you, I hate me, figuring this must happen to me because I'm bad. And you'll feel too guilty to worship. Or you'll be bitter, I hate you, feeling like this is unjust. I've tried my best. But what is the gospel? God made him sin who knew no sin, that we might become the righteousness of God in him. We're saved by grace. And when you see that and understand that, then what you get up and say, you don't say, God has forgiven you. You don't say, I hate you, because you know that if God gave you what you deserved, we'd all be gone. But you get up and say, I hate it. I hate sin. I hate evil. I hate the brokenness of the world. And I ally myself with God against it. And how do we know that God's allied against it? Here's why. God says, this just takes your breath away. God says to David, if redemption is going to go forward in the world, your son has to die. It's the only way to get you back. God says to Abraham, is going to go forth in the world, your son has to die.

But unlike any other God of any other religion, our God never asks anything of anybody that he hasn't asked of himself. Because you see, God said to himself, if redemption is going to go forward in the world,

my son has to die. And actually, you see, David and Abraham, the redemption we're talking about is redemption in their life. And redemption, you know, it's all relative. But God had to voluntarily put up Jesus Christ as a sin offering, or there was no way that redemption could happen. There was no way that we could be saved. God never has ever asked anybody in this world to do a millionth of what he himself has done. This is the doctrine. The Bible says that God did not create evil and suffering, but he uses and sends evil and suffering into our lives and if we are willing to reorient our trust during these times, we will be purified, we will be cleansed, we'll be like him. And God so hates suffering that he was willing to come and embrace it so that he could eventually destroy suffering and sin without destroying us.

The ultimate reason why we can face times like this is to know that God said to himself, the boy has to die.

And actually, every other little kind of death that we ever go through is nothing like the death that he went through. Oh, not at all. David didn't understand what we understand. Do you realize that? I think God, because David didn't understand that, because God, I mean, we have far more resources than David to face suffering because we know that God did that. God sent his son. God put his son up there. David didn't even see that. But I think God came to him and he said, I want to tell you a secret. I think God gave David revelation. This is a guess because he gets up and he says, he will not come to me. I will go to him. God came and said, you will be with your son eventually. A lot of people have been trying to read that text. Does that teach that infants, when they die, go to heaven? I don't think that is for us. I've been thinking about this. I think that was for David. It's God's way of saying, saying, David, you're going to be with him. Isn't that great? But then he came to David and he said, David, to show you that I'm a God of grace, that no matter what you've done, once you're forgiven, the past is gone, that in my grace you are perfectly righteous. I am going to bring the messianic line. I'm going to bring the Messiah, not through any of your other wives, through Bathsheba. This is the most astonishing thing. Why would God do that? Why would God choose to bring the Messiah through Bathsheba? comes and says, it's through Bathsheba that you will have a son and he will be the one. And God comes and tells him that and he goes to Bathsheba and he says, we're going to have another boy. And this will be the one. The other one wasn't the one. This is the one. And he names him Solomon. You know what Solomon means? Peace. Shalom. Peace. It was David's way of saying, I'm at peace with God. But God came and said, oh, there's more than that. at. God said his name is not just Solomon. Peace. His name is Jedidiah. I delight in him. He is my beloved because you're my beloved. God is a God of grace. There's no more powerful place in the Bible that talks about it than here. As disturbing, as difficult as it is. Take these things into your life and you'll be able to get off the floor. Let's pray. Thank you, Father, for giving us strong words, powerful words. We thank you for your severe mercy. You've never asked us to do anything that you haven't done a million times over. We know that you're the only God of all the gods of the world, all the religions of the world, who even claims that. And we rest in that. Father, we see that the purpose of all of our sufferings, and most of us go through rather small ones, some of the large ones, is that we can say, I am yours. and yours alone, and we're only free when we say, I am yours any way you want me. That's perfect freedom. Help us to say that. Help us to see that we need to say that. Help us to understand these things, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.
