Now, do you understand this? This is the conclusion. Values, purpose, and love. There are people who are not believers in Christ, and they're not religious either. But there are people in plenty of spots in the world who have values that they'll die for, and therefore they have a purpose in life to uphold those values, even as wrong as they are. And they've got a loving bunch of people around them. you have, you know, you'll be adaptable, you'll be kind of functioning, all right? You'll have a self-image of sorts. But if it's true that there's a God, and if it's true that you can own through Jesus, and if the doctrine of justification by faith alone, the fact, if it's true that you can be completely accepted because of what Jesus has done, in that case, can you see just how powerful and how strong your self-image could be? values you have are eternal values. And they're truths that aren't just truths that you believe in, but they're truths, the Bible says, that are alive and they come into your heart. And God writes them on your heart with his Holy Spirit and they become you. If it's true, for example, that you were actually built for an eternal purpose, that you've got gifts and ministry and there's a kingdom that God is bringing and that he's making you part of that kingdom work. And if it's true that God loves you completely in Jesus Christ and that you can know him intimately and forever. You see, if all those things are true, then the identity that Christian can develop and should be able to develop will be powerful indeed. So, you know, when somebody says, I'm unhappy and I'm depressed and I don't like myself and I have a bad self-image, on the one hand, you've got moralizing people that say, well, the problem is you must feel guilty about something. Repent, change, do the right thing. And there's other people. Maybe I'll get a chance next week to talk about this. There's other people. I call them psychologizing people who say, well, the whole problem is you've got to learn to love yourself. But I think a Christian, when somebody is depressed, a Christian comes and says, the problem is there's something that you have sought to make your righteousness and you're not able to perform it. You're not able to pull it off. That's why you feel so bad. That's why you feel so unacceptable. That's why you feel so ashamed. Transfer your trust from that. Stop being your own savior of Jesus Christ, your righteousness. Now that's a big overview, and I suddenly, I think maybe, well, we've got two more weeks to work on this. I suddenly realized as I was going over it that I just really went skin deep over a lot of subjects. So in some ways I can't hope to think that I have explained it all. Those of you who have been around for a long time and have been coming to Remedy Room for a long time, you've heard these things before. Those of you who are not, that are guests here tonight, I probably went too fast for you. But listen, I'm going to have Kathy give a response, fill in where she thinks I probably was too cursory, and then we're going to have time of questions and answers. OK? Would you want to, Jim, want to turn this on? Is that the right? Yeah. What's that? I don't know that. OK. Is this on? It should be. OK. One of the things that Tim was talking about a purpose. And how you can struggle if you're not a Christian. And you don't know what your purpose is. And you're kind of wandering around saying, well gee what am I here for. And I don't know. You can also struggle as a Christian. You know. You have given your life to Christ. Then you're doing the best you can. Then you're trying to live as you think he wants you to live. But at the same time. You're often confused. Then sometimes. Then sometimes still be awfully hard to know what your purpose is, even as a Christian, even after you're a Christian. This is not what I wish it was. I want to tell you a story that helped me make the most sense out of a very confusing life up to that point. I don't guess it's any less confusing now, but 1976, Tim and I were at the Urbana Missions Conference. Have any of you ever heard of Helen Rosevere? Any of you ever read her book, He Gave Us a Valley, He Gave Me a Valley? I guess some of you have. She made the most incredible impact on those of us who were there. She was a missionary in Africa who at one point in a very long and interesting career there was kidnapped during some uprising. Her fellow missionary was killed. She was raped and held prisoner for many months. Went through horrible, horrible suffering and a lot of it's in the book and some of it is she told us about that never made it into the book. The way she introduced her talk was she had a tree, sort of a plastic tree. And as we sang a hymn before her talk, she didn't say anything. She just started dismantling it. And this was the biggest thing I could find to sort of give you the same impression. She stood in front of this, you know, whatever it was, 17,000 people, and ripped this tree to shreds. She took the branches off of it. She took the leaves off of it. She didn't cover herself with flower blossoms. but she just made it completely bare, as bare as she could get it. You're not going to thank me for leaving this mess on the floor. When she was done, that's when she started her talk, and it was longer than this. It was kind of like that, about six feet long and like a broomstick kind of. She said, you know, my life has been a series of things being stripped away from me, things that I thought I wanted, things that I thought were going to happen to me. Marriage was one of them. Children were another. Her career was different. You know, she went through all this horrible suffering. She said, and I knew I was in the hands of God. And he was allowing it to happen. And he was even doing it to me in some cases. And I couldn't make sense of that. God, here I was meant to be this blossoming tree. At least that's what I thought I was. I had leaves. I had flowers. What was all that for, God? You weren't going to give me all these things I thought were actually going to be part of my resume, part of my life. She said, but look what he made me. He made me a spear in his hand. And I had to be stripped away in order to become that. I had to lose my leaves and my branches and my flowers. And as she talked, it was like she was a spear, really, entering at least my heart, saying so many of the confusions that I face is because I have written this agenda, this little lifetime agenda where I think my life's going to go. I have it all figured out what God has for me. And doggone it, he doesn't sort of seem to miss the exit signs. beating down the highway. Wait a minute, weren't we supposed to get off there, God? But yet, he has a purpose for us that may differ wildly from what we have. C.S. Lewis uses an image, not exactly like this one that Helen Rosevear did, but he says, you know, if you think of your life as a house, you notice the roof is leaking. There's a problem in your life. And how many of us have entered our relationship with Christ over a particular issue? Something particular shown us the emptiness or the misery in our lives, and we come to Christ and say, Jesus, fix me up. And, you know, I accept you and all that too, but fix the problem. Next thing you know, all these other things are changing in your life. Lewis says you invite him to come into your life thinking that he'll patch up the roof, and suddenly he's tearing a wing down here, and he's knocking a wall out there, and he's adding another story. Oh, oh, you just wanted your cottage patched up, but he's making a palace for himself to move into and live there. So much of what we frustrate ourselves with is having expectations of our life that don't take into account that God may have different ones for us. He may have things for us to do that far surpass our imagining. Helen Roseberry thought she was going to get married, bear children, live in the suburbs. She ended up in Africa being raped and tortured and writing books and speaking to thousands of impressionable young kids going, do I have to go through all of that, God, in order to be what you want me to be. But she was a spear in God's hand. And God had to strip her of a lot of what she had expected to be doing. And we have to let Him. I mean, we have to let Him make of us the palace that He wants to make of us or the spear that He wants to make of us. Otherwise, an awful lot of our history is going to be very confusing. It's not going to add up. Why did I have to go through that, God? I thought once I was a Christian, and fall into place. A lot of times it doesn't, and maybe it won't. I mean, some of you who've been around Christian conferences for a while have surely run into somebody giving you this great illustration of an oriental rug that from the top you see the pattern and from underneath it's a whole bunch of knotted, messed up little lines and you can't figure it out. I mean, that's okay. That's a fine illustration of eternity finally revealing the pattern of all of the events of your life, and there's nothing the matter with reminding yourself of that. but just bear in mind while you're in the confusion down here that God may be making something of you far different than what you thought he was I seem to be I was writing down notes what he was talking I was thinking of all the women who've ever ministered to me Helen Roser was one Edith Schaefer was another how many of you've ever heard Edith Schaefer speak and speak and speak she's a wonderful woman but she does ramble I once heard her at Grove City College ago where she was saying that it's her, and I've told some of you this, it's her conceit, her speculation that on the last day of judgment when the accuser is accusing God's people before God, when Satan, like in the book of Job, is coming before God and saying, you don't have any people who really love you. You have a bunch of slaves you've bought off to, you know, giving all this accusation. But God will have all of his people arrayed in front of him. And when, you know, The accuser may say, well, you don't have anyone who still loves you after having been single for 60 years and lost their job in 1981 and was unemployed. There'll be one person for every accusation to say, that happened to me, and God made me his person, and I lived through that, and I can still give him praise. So that even if your life on earth is not adding up and making sense in the sense that you're not going to be Helen Rosevear speaking to 17,000 missionary students giving this great talk about how everything that ever happened to you is now making sense, that there will be a time where you can give glory to God, even if it's at the last judgment, for what your life has been and what the purpose of it has been, even if it's not added up the way you thought it was going to be. That was one thing that occurred to me. It doesn't fit into any particular framework. I don't do what Tim does. do the talk. I do the kibitz. Do you want to ask questions? Ask four questions? Yes, you don't have to ask questions. You have to ask the questions. I thought of a lot of things that I should have said, but I'm going to wait for you to try to I want to make sure we're scratching where you're itching. Those are your notes. I may want to say some of this stuff. Let's see. Who's willing to start things off? We've got about a half an hour. And you just speak, and I'll

Yeah, the question is, if you say self-esteem is good and Christians respond well, but isn't that unchristian because shouldn't we? Doesn't Paul say, don't think too highly of yourself? In fact, aren't there a lot of things in the Bible that talk about being very humble and thinking less of yourself and so on? So how does self-esteem jive with all the things the Bible says about keeping a very lowly position? I can answer that. that? Well, I may as well tell him when I know something, otherwise he'll never hear me talk. In Philippians, where it talks about Jesus having humbled himself and coming on earth as a man, and he gave up all of his equality with God and didn't consider it something that he was actually going to be cheated out of, to lay aside all of his glory and to come as a man and as a criminal and to die the death he died, etc., etc., etc. He's the archetype for Christians, and it takes someone with a great deal of self-esteem, like Jesus himself, to not need to promote yourself, to not need to push yourself forward and always put oneself in the spotlight. When Jesus was able to lay aside his equality with God as the second person of the Trinity, He did that from a completely settled and solid self-esteem. If he had been insecure, he would never have been able to do that, to be born in a humble form, to take the posture of a servant, to die the death he died. And it's only people who have the self-esteem that comes from knowing who they are in Christ who can take the lower place, take the place of a servant and serve out of a heart that doesn't need to constantly have the input of other people saying, you're great, you're wonderful, aren't you terrific? Only those people who have that self-esteem that's based on the same thing that Jesus was can take those postures of not thinking more highly of yourself. Real self-esteem means that you don't think that much about yourself. A person who's truly secure can take criticism very well, doesn't need strokes, doesn't get upset if you're ignored. A person with real self-esteem is extremely humble because the biblical definition of humility is not thinking too little of yourself or too much of yourself. A humble person is someone who's not thinking of him or herself that much. Put it this way, self-confidence, self-consciousness, and self-forgetfulness. Now, a self-conscious person looks confident, but actually, a self-confident person is someone who is winning and is on a roll and is basing the sense of self-esteem on accomplishments and doing pretty well, as long as that person doesn't start losing. a self-conscious person is someone who's not a role. Who's lost a lot. And therefore, self-esteem is down. down. Both the self-confident and a self-conscious person actually are in a, what I mentioned, are both trying to earn their own righteousness. They've got standards that they're trying to live up to. The difference between a self-confident and a self-conscious person. A self-confident person is making it. And a self-conscious person is not. But a self-confident person is living life on a bubble. When you shifted completely. Your whole understanding of yourself off of your performance over onto what Jesus has done, then what happens is you no longer, you don't feel better or worse about yourself. It's settled. In a sense, you said goodbye to yourself. You say, look, I do have sins, and when the sins show up, I know that. God loves me in spite of it. And I do have strengths, but they're just gifts anyway. You don't get puffed up and self-confident by your accomplishments because you say to yourself, this is a gift of God. He could take it away anytime. And you don't get depressed when you fail because you say, failure. God loves me anyway, and He accepts me. A person with real self-esteem is not really somebody who's just always thinking greatly about himself and taking strokes and snapping in suspenders. A person who has real Christian self-esteem is somebody who really doesn't think that much about himself at all. So therefore, what I would say to those Christians is, when Paul says, don't think more highly of yourself, he's talking about this wonderful sense of self-forgetfulness, not the kind of hit yourself, knock yourself down that some people call self-consciousness, and not the puff yourself up. My biggest problem...when I have gone to counselors who weren't Christian, they only really have those two categories. If they see you depressed, they say, well, your problem is you've been losing, so we're going to try to get you into some different games, you know, let you lose some weight

I remember, for example, one time I went to a counselor when I was depressed and he said, what are you good at? And I said, well, back then I was pretty good at playing a trumpet. He says, what I want you to do is whenever you get depressed is I want you to fantasize playing an incredible solo and hitting that high note and wowing everybody in the audience. And so what he was trying to do was he says, he saw that I was, you see, I was failing. The reason The reason I was depressed is I was failing to earn my own righteousness, and he was trying to move me over and help me succeed in a few ways. That's the only two ways that he knew how to do it. Big problem was the more I fantasized about being a great musician, the more nervous I got when I auditioned. Because my image, he had said, well, think of yourself, get your meaning in life out of being a good trumpet player. And the problem was that just made me more and more scared. Whenever I go to audition, I said, if I blow this, you know, I'm spit. I'm nothing. You know, I'm like the stuff that's coming out of a little hole at the end of the tube there. And so because my self-image was riding on it, I felt better when I imagined myself succeeding. And of course, if I'd actually done well as a trumpet player, which I didn't do, I probably for temporarily I would have felt pretty good. What I have to say to Christians is Christian self-esteem is not like non-Christian self-esteem It's not just saying, you can do it, you can do anything. Real Christian self-esteem is full of humility and full of self-forgetfulness, and yet there is a tremendous boldness because you know what you are in Christ. Okay, back there. Okay? Yeah, go ahead. That's going to be real practical, and I said in some ways this is a more theoretical night, but let me say something this time first, then you can, is that all right? Then you can move along. on. What I do, first of all, remember when I talked about purpose, value, purpose, and love? A person with real strong self-image is actually operating, is getting that at both, you might say, the human and the divine level. The fact is that when God made Adam, Adam's sitting there all by himself, no sin. The best quiet times in history. I mean, every day God walks in and says, to go take a walk in the pool of the garden. I mean, you know, the best prayer life, the best. And yet God looks at him and says, it's not good for man to be alone. What? There's something, he was lonely. See, that means, that means that, that those three needs in order to have a healthy self-image, to have values, you know, things to die for, principles, and purpose, and love, those three things have to happen at both levels. So the fact is that if you have the best quiet times in prayer life and you don't have any human friends or family members. If you don't have anybody at a human level who's looking at you, understanding you, and then loving you, you see you're not really going to be very fulfilled. You have to have both levels. Same thing with purpose. If you say, oh, I'm really, really excited about how God is using me to help people in my neighborhood. I'm reaching out to people and I see God working through me. But you don't have a job and you don't have a career and you don't have anything you're really accomplishing. You see, at both the human and the divine level, you've got to work. And ordinarily, I would actually draw a little column. No, three columns, okay? Three columns. Your values, your purpose, and your love. And you say, a person who's walking around with the kind of insecurity we talked about, a sense, I don't know what the threat is that holds me together. I can't take criticism. I feel very, very, very insecure. needs to probably be checking out all those areas. In general, I still think there's a tendency for us in that third column, in the love column, down here is maybe the key one. What makes you feel acceptable? And ordinarily, a person who is saying, I just am depressed and insecure and unhappy, I would say, let's find out what you have made your righteousness. I'll give you kind of an example. One time I counseled with a lady who was very upset and angry at her husband because their oldest son was turning out bad. He was 16 and he was really becoming, he was on his way to being a good juvenile delinquent, I guess. And her husband was very busy with his job and he wasn't spending time with the child. And he was with his son and she was real angry at him. So we talk about forgiveness and she would try and she couldn't. Eventually, I remember at one session, it suddenly occurred to me what had really happened. The reason that she was so unbelievably bitter was because having her son turn out right had really become her righteousness. It wasn't just that she loved her son. It was she was saying, if my son turns out to be a criminal, which is what it looks like is going to happen, if I failed as a mother, if I failed here, then I failed as a person. Very often, this is not unusual, Very often, though a woman loves her career, she has a tendency to get her identity out of relationships. And whereas a man very often loves his friendships, he tends to get his identity out of his career. In other words, where your righteousness is, it's different. And the problem was the father was upset about the son too. But the father really essentially felt his righteousness was in how well he was doing. So he put his job over his son. The wife was so angry with her husband because she was saying, if you don't do something, if my son turns out like this, I may kill myself. I'll lose all meaning in life. Now she was a professing Christian, but what my job was to show her was I had to say, you've made your son into your peace. You've made your son into your righteousness. Now that's a very hard thing for somebody to admit. She did, and it helped. In other words, she realized that though she had to forgive her husband, she had to repent. and she had to say, here all this long time I've been talking about Jesus really being my Savior when I have really made my son or my motherhood into my salvation. So to some degree you can work at low self-esteem by just going around these columns and saying, maybe I need a better job, maybe I need more friends at the human level, but underneath, underneath you've got to be asking yourself your knowledge of God and especially what is your righteousness is really, really very, a very, very key. So my feeling, again, is that you should be talking with Christians and with mature Christians and mature Christian people who can give council. As well as, in some cases, talking to a therapist. The good thing about a therapist is they're very good at working at a human level. If they're not Christians. They're very good at working up there. And they can show you things. And they can say, you need to relax here. You need to take time off here. You're overworking here. And so forth. Now those are some practical ideas. You want to add to that? I don't want to add to it, but I do want a footnote. I was almost thinking of doing this whenever you were talking. Tim was talking earlier about how so much of his role as a pastor was depending on everybody else's approval, and I was nodding my head, some of you in the front row, and I was really like that. He was working 100 hours a week. We really need to give a footnote to Jack and Rosemary Miller, and they're going to be here too. That's one of the reasons I wanted to say this. Our pastor and his wife in Philadelphia, because the five years that we spent between the church in Virginia and coming here, we were in Jack Miller's church in Philadelphia, New Life Presbyterian Church. And this is Jack to a T. I mean, he's the one that says, you've got to preach the gospel to yourself. You can't be letting your accomplishments be the thing that you get your righteousness from. And I wanted to say that in particular because Jack's going to be doing a convocation at Redeemer April 7th. And he and Rosemary are going to be doing the small group leaders retreat, officer, deacon, deaconess retreat immediately prior on the 5th and the 6th. So if any of you get a chance to come and hear them either on that retreat or on that morning, you'll see where a lot of our ideas have come from because we really need to thank them and thank God for them for having given us an awful lot of the understanding that we have of how we use our own accomplishments to make our peace. Okay. Laura had her hand up. I saw that. Go ahead. Laura's pointing out, whereas I had said that the inability to receive criticism is definitely a sign that your self-image is not grounded well. That either you don't know who you are or you don't like who you are. Or you're trying to earn your salvation, earn your righteousness, and therefore criticism shatters you. But Laura's pointing out that the inability to take compliments is also a bad sign, and I agree. The inability to take compliments is just as bad because, in fact,

stuff that makes it impossible for you to take criticism. Because you want it so badly. You want it so badly but you're almost embarrassed at how bad you want it. So you almost have to put it away. It's sort of like a person. You're just so tempted. It's like a person who's having a lot of trouble controlling their appetite. getting near cookies or candy or something like that. I know in my own case I have a lot of trouble taking compliments, and I know now, I'll be willing to tell you right here, it's because I just need them and relish them so much that I'm embarrassed when they happen. And I can't just... So I don't know if there's... I haven't really picked up the trick of it. I know there's a lot of Christians that have really pietistic little things they say that are just so irritating, like, well, praise the Lord, for example. that's what you should say inside. But I think outside it's a... what it's really doing is it's diverting. It's diverting. The person's trying to say, I like you. I appreciate you. And if you say, praise the Lord, it cheapens it for the average person. If you're a mature Christian, you know what the guy's trying to do. In your own heart, you should be saying that. In your own heart, this is what I try to say. I say, well, that's wonderful that this person sees that. that. This person doesn't see all the stuff, the gunk that I hide. And this person doesn't realize that this is something that I could take away any time, but I see that this is one... Whenever I get a compliment, I try to say, first of all, Lord, I'm sorry that I want this so much. And then secondly, I say, but I also see that you really will meet my needs, won't you? Whenever a compliment comes in, I look at it as a gift from God. Instead of saying, praise the Lord, I say, this is God's way of telling me that he's really going to look out for me. He is going to give me the support I need. Some days, sometimes you're going along and you're really feeling bad and somebody comes in with a real nice affirming conversation or encouraging comment and what you have to say inside is, Lord, you really always give me what I need when I need it. So think of the compliments from God and that might be a helpful way to do it. But I agree with you. The inability to take compliments is made of the same stuff that makes it hard to take criticism. Okay, yes, sure. When you're mistreated or when you see injustice, it gets angry, and how does that fit in with what I just said about the fact the person... If you had... Nobody has perfect self-image, but if you had a perfect self-image, because you're perfectly resting in Christ, she heard me say that you wouldn't get touchy, irritable, you wouldn't upset with criticism and so forth. The fact is that Jesus got angry, very angry, and we have to agree that he has a perfect self-image, and then God gets angry constantly, and he says he's angry all day with people. And therefore, there could be an anger. If my self-image is right, my anger is over the fact I'm trying to defend principles of justice and right. See, if I see somebody doing something wrong, I can say God's not being honored, other people are being hurt, this is unjust, so I'm defending justice. I get angry to defend justice. Out of a bad self-image, I just get angry because I want to defend my ego. I feel humiliated, I feel hurt, I feel my reputation has been hurt, my righteousness has been undermined. And I think in the evening services recently, I guess we got a chance to talk about that, that since God gets angry, it can be possible to be angry for right reasons, but it's not easy. The real problem is your anger is always a mixture. There's A drive and there's B drive. Out of A drive, I'm operating completely knowing that I'm acceptable in the Lord and my righteousness is Christ. B drive, I'm operating out of my old righteousnesses. Now, I don't know if any of you have been working on a hard disk and suddenly A and B drive stuff comes on, there's garbage on there. You have to clean it off. You know how messy that is? And so really what happens in almost every situation is now that you're a Christian, you tend to operate out of both at once. So when someone is mean to me, I operate, there's both a selfish kind of anger and an anger that arises out of my insecurity, and then there's an anger that's righteous and it's just, and that is there because this has been unjust and therefore I should be aroused against evil. The real problem is they both happen at once and all I can do is I need to every so often sit down and try to comb out the bad motives, but it's very, very difficult. As you grow in grace, you see the one kind of motive going up and the other kind of motive going down. Do you want to talk about the anger thing? Well, not specifically anger. There's an awful lot of situations that occur in your life or resentment might be closer to it or just depression. It's not someone stabbing you in the back. It's just you see them writing you off, that sort of thing. You know how Rambo said, I'm your worst nightmare? Okay, you're my worst nightmare. Coming to New York for me, knowing that I was inevitably going to be in front of a lot of very beautiful people as a not beautiful person, very, very threatening. And if I couldn't preach the gospel to myself and say, I am already a failure on the physical appearance level, but if that's where I'm putting my hope, if I'm going to be hurt when people write me off until they find out I'm the pastor's wife, oh, you're the pastor's wife! You don't know how often that happens to me on a Sunday. Then I would never have come. the bed in Philadelphia. But the gospel is where we have to preach to ourselves. We have to say I'm acceptable in Christ, not because of what people think about me, not because of how they accept me or add up my deficiencies or my abilities or anything like that, but because of the gospel. And I can't, what are the Enoch Denison's thing, you can't take yourself at the quotation of the day. I bet you have that written down. I just didn't get to it. Yeah, I promise. That's perfect. Can I read I don't have it memorized. Read it. Thanks, Judy. It's 9.30. I'm going to read this. I'm going to close in prayer. I'm going to ask that you come back next week if you can. The next two weeks we'll be trying to flesh this out. The questions are excellent, but we've got a long way to go to flesh it out. Theory tonight, application later. This quote that Kathy was mentioning, that's meant a lot to us. Pride, good pride, is faith in the idea that God had when he made us. Most people are not aware of any idea God had in the making of them, or else it's been lost and who shall find it again? They have got to accept as success what others decide success is and to take their happiness, even their own selves, at the quotation of the day. Aspire to realize the idea God had for you. Don't aspire to comfort, to success, or to beauty, will of God. Okay. Listen. Pride is faith. And the idea that God had when he made us. Most people are not aware of any idea that God had. And it were else it's been lost. And who shall find it. You have got in that situation. Then you've got to accept a success. What other people say. You should look like. What other people say. You should be like. What other people say. Success. And you have got to take your happiness. Even your own. Cells or to comfort, or to approval, or to beauty, but to the will of God. That's your only hope, and it's the only way you will be free. Let's pray. Father, I thank you that you have hidden these things from the high and the wise and revealed them unto babes, and that's us. Those of us here in this room who have discovered a real secret of self-image and identity the great doctrine that we're not saved by our efforts, as every other religion says, but we're saved strictly because we're accepted in the beloved and our righteousness is transferred to us from the record of Jesus Christ. Father, that is such a strange doctrine. Who would have ever thought it up? It's true. And the application of that doctrine to our lives is our life itself. We thank you that you have devised for us such a great salvation. How will we escape if we neglect such a great salvation? And yet, Lord, those of us in this room realize that we are not wise, we're not high. Why do we know it? It's because You've come to us and You've shown it to us. Anyone in this room who hasn't really seen that, anybody here who may profess to be Christians but have not really worked the gospel into their own hearts until it affects their very identity, the very way in which they deal with people, Father, I pray that tonight and as the next two or three weeks go by, we might just open our minds to a whole new way of thinking about living in the world and about viewing ourselves. The one who would lose his life will find it. The one who seeks to find it will lose it. Help us to aspire to your will. We pray it now in Jesus' name. Amen.