Now, here's what we want to do this year.

When Redeemer started, essentially the very first layer, I think, that you have to lay into people's lives as you're starting a new church and you're offering Christ to many, many people for the first time, is everyone's heard the idea that connecting to Jesus Christ changes your life. But every church, every ministry has to explain how. How does Jesus change your life? And an awful lot of churches give the impression that if you're just really, really, really sold out for Jesus, really surrendered, really confessing all known sin, really, really

open to him, all those words, none of which are really that defined, that somehow Jesus will come into your life and change you. And

that's really open to a lot of misinterpretation. In the very beginning of Redeemer, we talked about The gospel of God.

The gospel of God.

that. I mean, what I just said is very familiar to anybody who comes to Redeemer because you've heard it in the sermons. You've heard it around. But what I want to do for you as leaders is I want to actually get that fact out, get that stuff out, which is the basis of Redeemer's whole ministry. We change lives through preaching. We change lives through counseling. We change lives through pastoring. We change lives through community. But what I want to show you is what it is that we're communicating through our preaching, through our pastoring, through our relationships, through our counseling. What is the basic stuff that we think this is what changes the life? We're going to get that out and look at it in an undistilled way for three times together. I'm giving you more printed material than you ordinarily would have. In a sense, we're almost putting together a short book for you. and each month, each time we meet, you know, here in October, then again in January and in April, we're going to cover the waterfront of how does God change life through the gospel? Or another way to put it is the gospel transformed heart. Next year, we'll move on to talking about community. Next year after that, we'll go on and talk about mission and our ministry in the city. But this year, we're going to say, how does the heart get changed? Because in your small groups and in your teaching and in your ministry, and no matter what you're in, this is the stuff that you're supposed to be communicating as leaders, or this is the basis on which you are involving yourself in other people's lives in order to help them change. Now, at the very end, I'll show how what I'm telling you tonight fits in with everything else we're going to look at this year. But what you have in your hand is two parts. The second part, the last few pages, is a written out version of my prodigal son's sermon, which has been preached twice over the years of Redeemer, once 10 years ago, once two years ago, I think it is, which is pretty well known. People get it, but it's almost in some ways the manifesto of this whole approach to gospel-changed, gospel-transformed heart. We're not going over that tonight. It's there for you to read. If you've never heard the sermon, or even if you have heard the sermon, it's awfully good to have that as a resource. In fact, I would suggest that it be your homework, that after tonight, after listening to my talk, after the Q&A, after the discussion, you go home and you read it. and even if you've heard it before, I have to go back to this fairly often because it is really the manifesto. It's the thing on which Redeemer is based and don't you want to have your leadership in line with the foundation? This is the foundation of Redeemer. But the first part, in the first part, I'm going to try to lay out this basic insight that Redeemer is based on, this basic transaction, this approach to the gospel transformed heart, and I'm going to go through about a third of it right now. So go to page three. Some of what I'm about to tell you will sound incredibly familiar, but I hope you'll see here it lays it all out in outline form and fills in blanks that you may not have heard before. I'm trying to give you a single, not too short, but also not too long, comprehensive presentation. The basic insight Redeemer is based is that there's a difference between not only the gospel and irreligion or secularism or relativism or unbelief, but there's also a big difference between the gospel and religion or morality or belief in general. This is critical to our understanding here, and I'll show you the reasons why. So, occasionally I'll read, then I'll comment, I'll read a little bit more, I'll comment. That's how we'll go through this to make sure we cover operating principle of religion is I obey, therefore I'm accepted by God. I live a good life, I'm accepted. The basic operating principle of the gospel is I'm accepted by God through Jesus Christ, therefore I obey, which is exactly the opposite. It's not like just the gospel is a little different than religion, it's diametrically opposed to it. And two people living their lives on the basis of these two principles sit right alongside of each other in church, sometimes every Sunday. They're both praying. They're both giving their money to the poor. They're both trying to live according to the Ten Commandments. They're both trying to be good family members. They're both trying to please Jesus. And they're doing it for two utterly different reasons, utterly different motivations. And because they're doing it for utterly different reasons and utterly different motivations, because their hearts are into utterly different places, opposing places, that in spite of the fact that up here, it looks like they look very similar underneath, their hearts are in different places and the fruit is going to be utterly different.

That's the key insight. You've probably heard something like that before. There it is. Martin Luther who I have learned a lot of this from says that the basic default mode of the heart you know what a default is when you're not looking it's where you go automatically the default mode of the human heart is to go back to self-salvation self-justification you say oh I understand I'm saved by faith has done. I'm not saved by my good works. Okay, so if I gave you a test on justification by grace alone through faith alone versus works, you get 100%, but your heart still doesn't believe it. And your heart goes back to the older approaches to things. And that's the reason why Martin Luther would say, and he's right about this, is that in spite of the fact that people know the gospel enough to be saved and know the gospel enough to give you the right answer and to basically orient yourself toward God in a matter of grace, the way your heart functionally goes about its work, the way it relates to your work life, it relates to criticism, the way it relates to other people around you is it continues to operate on the basis of self-salvation. If I'm good enough, enough, if I'm kind enough, if I'm moral enough, if I reach my standards, then I'm valuable, then I'm significant. So your heart doesn't believe what your head does. And basically, growing in Christ is getting what your head knows down into your heart and into every nook and cranny of your life. That is what your job is as leaders, to get the gospel down into people's hearts, into nooks and crannies. And the reason they've got the problems they have is because their heart doesn't believe what their head actually knows. Or maybe you could say their head doesn't even really know it, you know, and that's one of the ways in which their heart changes is the head has to be even more able to understand and be convinced of the gospel. That's why now skip the big, long paragraphs, I mean, the big, long quote from Richard Loveless.

Therefore, see this paragraph after the quote? It's typical for Christians to think there are

follow him and do his will, or reject him and do your own thing?

Of course, ultimately, that's true. You can either follow God, obey God, rely on God for salvation, or be your own Savior and Lord. But what's important to see is there are two ways to be your own Savior and Lord. There's two ways to reject God as Savior. One is by being very bad and doing anything you want to do and breaking all of God's laws. But the other is by being incredibly good and being really moral and being really fastidious and maybe coming to Redeemer and coming to leaders at seven and being a leader and saying, God must love me because look at all the ministry I'm doing. You're still being your own Savior and Lord. You're being your own Savior. Savior. See, you're earning it. That's the idea. So, there's two ways to be your own Savior and Lord, one by being very, very bad and being very irreligious, and one by being very, very good and being very moral and very religious and very Christian and very ministry-oriented. And they're both wrong. So now, if you go all the way, turn over to the bottom of page five, where did you find that? The intervening section, which I'd love to have you read at some point, is once you know that there's not two ways, God's way or man's way. I mean, that's very typical in many gospel presentations. Once you realize there's three ways, there's looking to God for your salvation, and then there's a religious way to be your own Savior and an irreligious way to be your own Savior. Once you understand that, how do you present the gospel to somebody? And I have in the intervening section a kind of typical example. Again, much of it will feel familiar to you, but there it is now in print that you can take a hold of. It's somewhat of a different way to do the gospel than your typical Billy Graham approach, your steps to God approach, or that sort of thing. Now, but if you're at the bottom of page five, you see where it says, in short, short. In short, there is a sharper distinction between religion and the gospel as there is between irreligion and the gospel. Irreligion or unbelief is avoiding God as Savior and Lord by ignoring him. Religion or moralism is avoiding God as Savior or Lord by developing a moral righteousness and giving it to God so he owes you. The gospel is not we develop righteousness and give it to him so that then he owes us, but that he developed righteousness through Jesus Christ and gives it to us so that then we owe him. The gospel differs from both religion and irreligion, most moral conformity, self-discovery, blah, now. Now, stay, yeah, turn over. Let me say, you say, where do you get this? I hear this from Tim and I hear this at Redeemer, but I really don't hear that other places. And I don't know why you don't hear it other places because I think it's all through the Bible and the next section tells you. Let me at least show you the biblical sources for it. Again, there's a lot more that could be said, but let me give you some biblical sources. If you're reading the book of Romans, Romans 1 is all about the fact that the wicked pagan Gentiles who are rolling around in the mud and having orgies all the time, that's what you get the impression of in Romans 1. Those poor people are lost. But then Romans 2 is all about the fact that Bible-believing, God-fearing, very righteous, very concerned to follow the Bible, religious people, in this case Jews, are also lost. And that's the...see, after Romans 1, the bad people, after Romans 2, the good people, see, Paul concludes in chapter 3, verse 9, what can we conclude then? Are we any better? Not at all. We have already made the charge that Jew and Gentile alike are all under sin. As it is written, there is no one righteous, not even one. There is no one who seeks God. Now, one of the most...that is an amazing statement, statement, though Paul isn't making that up, by the way. That comes from the Psalms. It's in Psalm 14. I think it's a couple of places in the Psalms. When Paul says that people who are religious who are trying to obey the law and trying to obey the Ten Commandments, see, the folks in Romans 2, are not seeking God, it's a strange statement. What he's really saying is, he says, it's possible to be incredibly, incredibly fulfilled, incredibly disciplined in obeying God. But you're not actually trying to get God. You're trying to get things from God. You're trying to get heaven from God. You're trying to get self-esteem from God. Because you're earning, you're meriting, your heart is saying, I've got to do all these things, then God will give me all these things. You say, of course, I'm seeking God. I'm trying so hard. I want him to bless me. I want him to where Paul's saying, you're not seeking God. You're seeking things from God. God is a means to an end. You're self-seeking. You're seeking your own glory. You're seeking to be your own savior. You're not seeking God. It's an amazing statement. To come to the end of chapter 2 where Paul's talking about how amazingly fastidious his brethren are in trying to obey God and to say, but you're not seeking God and all that religion. So Romans 1, 2, and then 3 are a perfect example irreligion, religion, and Christianity. Now, some people find that, you know, I have to say for years I read Romans and didn't make this connection because I had a tendency to say, well, here's the irreligious Gentiles and here's the Jews. And of course, the Jews don't believe in Jesus, so of course. So I had a tendency to miss the forest for the trees until I began reading the rest of the Bible. Now, here's some other sections. Sermon on the Mount. Many years ago, I was listening to a British preacher, preach of the Sermon on the Mount in a series of tapes. I was listening. And one of the things that astounded me near the end, this is part of my paradigm shift on this, was he said, you know, at the end of the Sermon on the Mount, it says there's two paths. There's the broad road that leads to destruction and there's the narrow path that leads to salvation. And there's two trees. And there's the tree that bears fruit and the tree that does not. And there's the two houses, the house built on the sand and the house built on the rock. trees, so choose the right tree, choose the right path, choose the right house, okay? And then I remember the preacher said, what do you think those two ways represent? And I've already preached a series of sermons in Virginia when I was in my mid-twenties on the Sermon on the Mount, and I had preached that the narrow path is living God's way, and the broad path was, you know, abandoning God's law and abandoning God and not believing in God. And he says, no, no, no, no. He says, look, if at the very end of the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus says there's two paths. In summary, there's two paths. In conclusion, there's two paths. He says, well, you have to find those two paths back in the sermon, don't you? If to say in summary, there's two paths, then it must be in the sermon. So he says, go through true. And you'll see all through the Sermon on the Mount, there is a contrast being made between two kinds of people. Not people who pray and who don't pray. Not people who give to the poor and who don't give to the poor. Not people who are trying to obey God's law and people who don't try to obey God's law. If you look carefully, it's talking about people. Both people groups pray. Both groups give the alms. Both groups are trying to obey the law of God. But one group is Pharisaical. Your righteousness has to exceed the scribes and the Pharisees, Jesus says. One group gives alms so that God and people will see, and the other gives alms in private. One prays, you know, so everybody can see and God can see, and one just goes into the closet. One is very judgmental and condemns, and the other is not. And I suddenly realized it's religion and irreligion. No, it's religion and the gospel. Those are the two paths that are in the Sermon on the Mount. And Jesus Christ is warning against people who actually pray and who obey the Ten Commandments and all that sort of thing. On the other hand, they're religious as opposed to being gospel-oriented. Now, keep on going. Take a look down. After the Sermon on the Mount, the two prodigals. If you haven't heard the sermon, you're going to read it, but let me just tell it to you in brief. What's so shocking about the parable of the prodigal son, and I call it the parable of the prodigal sons, is there's a younger brother and an elder brother. And if you read the story, you'll see it's very, very shocking. The younger brother goes off and squanders his inheritance with prostitutes and lives a very licentious immoral life. The elder brother stays at home and obeys the father. But in the end, they're both alienated because when the father brings the younger brother back by his grace, the elder brother is so furious that he won't come in to the father's feast. So in the end, the elder brother is lost because the Father's feast represents salvation. And Jesus is actually giving the Pharisees who he's telling the story to a picture of themselves. And what's really weird is in the end, you have a good person and a bad person. In the end, the good person is saved and the bad person is lost. And the good person... I'm part... I just said that wrong. There's a good... There's a bad person, younger brother, and a good person, the elder brother. The bad person is saved and The good person is not lost in spite of his goodness. I've got to get this right. But because of his goodness. In the end, the elder brother won't come in because he says, I worked like a slave. I have always obeyed you. My brother did not. You have no right bringing him in. And Jesus is trying to show the Pharisees what they look like. There's two kinds of lostness. See? There's bad people lostness, and there's good religious moral Pharisaical kind of lostness. And so many people who think they're Christians, so many people who go to church, so many people who are active in Christian circles are basically Pharisees. And that's the reason why that they're dutiful, and they pray, and they do all these things, but there's no sense of God really in their life. They're nervous, and they're anxious, and they're upset all the time because basically their heart is resting in their relative lack of sin, their relative lack of spiritual collapse. They're looking at the fact that they are doing good things, and they're basically basing their sense of self-worth on their performance. And so basically most people, many, many, many people who are in churches are actually elder brothers. Now, one more thing.

Yeah, keep going. Keep going. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.

Wait. Go to where it says a schema, and that's on page what? Yeah, go to where it says schema, but look up here. Let me give you a little bit more summarizing. Kierkegaard, understand this idea of three ways rather than just two. Kierkegaard said that there's the aesthetic approach There's the ethical approach, and then there's the spiritual approach, essentially the same thing. The aesthetic approach is the way of self-aggrandizement, the way of self-indulgence. The aesthetic approach is what he means by fulfilled The spiritual approach is essentially the gospel. And if you ever, ever, ever want a really, really new... If I was going to share the gospel with a group of really, really secular, really hostile to Christianity, very smart artistic types, I'd sit them down and I'd watch Babette's Feast with them, the movie, and then discuss it afterwards. Because Babette's Feast was written by Isak Denison, Karen Blixen, who is Danish, and she was very influenced by Kierkegaard. And what you actually have in the movie is, first of all, these two young women who are the daughters of this austere Lutheran Puritan kind of pastor. And in their early days, one is beautiful, one is an incredible singer, and they flirt with the idea of the aesthetic. But the father sort of brings them back into the ethical. And they both have essentially boyfriends that want to marry them and take them off into the realm of the aesthetic, but they stay with their father and they stay in this very, very tight, little, austere, ethical community. And at the end of the movie, there's this incredible feast, actually, this incredible dinner in which the women realize that not only the aesthetic not actually wouldn't have fulfilled them, and one of the boyfriends comes back as a general, this is 30 or 40 years later, and he knows the aesthetic life hasn't really fulfilled him, but they also realize the ethical life hasn't fulfilled them. And they have a moment of insight over this feast. It's very nuanced, very subtle. It certainly doesn't hit anybody over the head, but it'd be extremely interesting to watch that movie and then show Kierkegaard's three ways of life, which are basically these three things, not religion, not irreligion, but the gospel, and talk about it. I mean, insightful people, whether it's Romans, the Sermon on the Mount, the parables, Kierkegaard. C.S. Lewis has an essay that almost nobody's ever read, very little thing called Three Kinds of Men. You know, not very gender inclusive, but anyway, Three Kinds of Men. And he basically says the same thing. Over the years, people have come to realize that this distinction between religion and religion is absolutely crucial. If you want to see a schema, here they are. Let me just read you through. Now let's just do religion versus Everybody knows the difference between gospel and irreligion. What people don't recognize is the difference between gospel and just religion. So here's, let me go back and forth through these. Religion says I obey, therefore I'm accepted. The gospel is I'm accepted, therefore I obey. Religion says religion's motivation is based on fear and insecurity. I obey or God will get me. me. I obey or I go to hell. I obey or bad things will happen to me. The gospel is I obey out of grateful joy. Completely different. Religion, I obey God in order to get things from God. Gospel, hey, you know, I'm saved by grace, therefore I obey God to get God. Not to get, the main things, if you believe the gospel, the main things, life forever, you see, the main things are already there. So why am I obeying? I'm obeying to get God, which is to say to delight Him and to resemble Him, to get more of Him. Religion. When circumstances in my life go wrong, I'm angry at God or myself. Why? Because I believe, like Job's friends, that if I'm good, I'll have a comfortable life. And if I don't have a comfortable life, if bad things are happening in my life, maybe it's because I'm living a bad life. life. So if you don't understand the gospel, when suffering comes, either you're mad at God because you say, I'm living a good life. This is not right. Because you believe basically in your heart that if you live a good life, then good things should happen. So if bad things start to happen, you'll either be mad at God because you feel like you deserve a better life than you're having, or you'll be mad at yourself because you'll say, I must be not living up like I should. or you'll go back and forth. You'll be mad at God and mad at yourself. But the gospel says, when circumstances in my life go wrong, I struggle, but I know all my punishment fell on Jesus and that while he may allow this for my training, he will exercise his fatherly love within my trial. See, the gospel says, I don't deserve a good life. I deserve of hell. But on the other hand, I also know this can't be retribution because I am not being punished for my sins. See? A person who doesn't understand the gospel wonders if I'm being punished for my sins and wonders whether it isn't God being unfair, whereas a person who understands the gospel says, God, you'll never be unfair to me. On the other hand, I know this isn't punishment. Or look at the bottom. Pardon me, look at the next one. Religion says, when I'm criticized, I am furious or devastated because it is critical that I think of myself as a good person. Threats to that self-image must be destroyed at all costs. On the other side, the gospel says, when I'm criticized, I struggle, sure. But it's not critical for me to think of myself as a good person. That's not the basis of my self-image. My identity is not built on my record or my performance, but on God's love for me. And therefore, criticism does not actually get at my foundation. So over the years, think about this. A blow to a branch doesn't threaten the whole tree. A blow to the roots threatens the whole tree. The more you understand the gospel, the more criticism becomes not a blow to your roots, but a blow to a branch. And as the years have gone by in my own life, as the gospel has become more and more, you know, my foundation, more and more, when criticism come, it doesn't shake the whole tree anymore. It's been very, very gradual, see. Next. Pardon me, I have a different setup than you. Or do you? No, the next one is my prayer. Do you see that? I don't know if you're on the same sheet as me, so you probably don't have to turn over. Okay, prayer life. In religion, prayer consists largely of petition, and it only heats up when but I'm in time of need. My main purpose in prayer is to control my life. But in the gospel, prayer life consists mainly of generous stretches of praise and adoration. You're not praying in order to get control of your life because you trust God. God's not a boss that you've got to control with your good deeds and your prayers. God is a God, you know, who is, you trust at this point. And the purpose of praying is adoration and grace and fellowship with him. Or next, I'll do one more, okay? Now you can turn, right? Okay. My self-view in religion swings between two poles. If and when I'm living up to my standards, I feel confident. Well, you've heard me say this about three million times, but I don't know. That's why we're trying to do this at Leaders at Seven. I'm trying to get everybody on the same page. If I'm living up to standards, I feel confident, but then I'm prone to be proud and unsympathetic to failing people. And when I'm not living up to my standards, I feel humble, but I don't feel confident because I feel like a failure. But the gospel creates a unique self-view. It's not based on a view of myself as a moral achiever. In Christ, I'm simultaneously sinful and lost, yet accepted completely in Christ. I'm so bad he had to die for me. I'm so loved he was glad to die for me. This leads me to, on the one hand, a humility that is not accompanied by a sense of failure. At the same time, it gives me a confidence that is not accompanied by a sense of superiority. In other words, neither swaggering nor sniveling. That's the self-view of a gospel person. And then finally, let's see. Well, I think that's about it. Let me cut to the chase. Well, actually, the chase is almost over. Go to the bottom of page 12,

where it says, using this threefold scheme to communicate the gospel.

Let me just give you... Look where it says first. The reason in a church service that I have to make sure I'm constantly preaching the gospel like this, contrasted with both religion and irreligion. And the reason why you as leaders have to always be trying to push this understanding out is for this reason. First of all, there are a whole lot of people who believe they're Christians, who are professed Christians, but probably are pure elder brothers. others. You can't be sure. Don't you dare look at somebody and say to a baptized person who subscribes to the Christian faith of the Apostles' Creed, I don't think you're actually regenerate and born again. You can't know that. But here's one thing you can know. There are plenty of people who are baptized who are unregenerate. That's for sure. So what do you… In other words, there's plenty of people who are professed Christians who later on will come back and say, say, boy, last year I realized the gospel for the first time and my relation with God finally came and I don't think I was even, I don't think I'd experienced a new birth before last year, even though I'd been part of the church for a number of years. This happens all the time. It happened to me. It probably happened to a number of you. However, in a sense, you can't go to somebody and say, I don't think you've had the new birth to a baptized Christian. I don't think that's a very good idea at all. How the heck would you know? You have a little x-ray machine. but what you have to do is you have to be bringing the gospel out like this so that some people get convicted and recognize and they'll come back to you and say, I think I became a Christian this year. See? I mean, in one way, you can't become a Christian if you've already been in the church and you're baptized, but another way you can experience the new birth. And that's why many professed Christians aren't believers. They are pure elder brothers and only make this distinction, Only making this distinction will ever bring them conversion. But also, many, many, many genuine Christians are incredibly elder brotherish. Angry, mechanical, superior, insecure, largely because the gospel is mainly up here and it has not worked itself down into their hearts. But here's the third reason, and then I'm done. And I'll tell you a little bit about what we're going to do the next two times we meet, and we'll have Q&A here for about 15 minutes.

the average non-christian in New York City thinks they understand Christianity pretty well they've seen it many of them from the south and the midwest were raised in churches and they want nothing more to do with it or they've seen other people who profess Christians in other words they think they understand Christianity unless you show them even as you're preaching or teaching or witnessing, even as you're speaking to postmodern secular Christians, unless you talk to them about the difference between religion and the gospel, when you call them to faith in Christ, they will assume you're asking them to become religious. You understand that? If I say to somebody in this country, you need to receive Jesus Christ into your heart as Savior. You're not saved by works, you're saved by faith in Jesus Christ. So believe in him and ask him into your life. They will automatically think you're asking them to become really, really good, go to church, live for Jesus. They will automatically think you're bringing them into religion. Unless you contrast religion with the gospel, they will automatically think you're asking them into that. And not only that, unless you contrast the two, they won't understand why so much of the church turns them off. But if you contrast the two, then and only then will they say, oh, I thought I understood Christianity, I never realized there was a distinction. I guess I better give you a second look. So it's absolutely critical. Now, the biggest problem that you will find as leaders is that you might give people a tape, or you might talk with them about this, or you might talk about this distinction, and a lot of people will always say, I never thought about that. This is fascinating. This is helpful. I love this. Oh, I'm so excited. And they'll go right out, continue to live the way they were before. Self-righteousness, insecurity, over-concern about how you look, inability to take criticism, workaholism, all that stuff means they don't really believe the gospel, at least not at a very deep level. They're still in the old default mode, as Luther said. How do you show people that even once they seem to get the distinction between been religion of the gospel intellectually. It takes a long time to work it all the way into your heart. And that's what we're going to be looking at the next two times we meet. I can tell you this. One is you yourself have got to every day, at least twice besides in the morning for your little quiet time. And that's assuming you're all having a quiet time in the morning. But even if you were, at least two other times during the day, you've got to use the gospel on your heart. I'll talk to you about that in January, so now you'll have to come back. And in April, I want to show you how when you make presentations, when you're talking to people or when you're teaching people, how to make sure that when you use the… how you can make sure that you're always reinforcing this distinction between religion and the gospel, these three ways to go in your own teaching, and we'll get to that in April. But right now, what I want to do to take questions. So are these mics alive? Questions? We've got time for a few.

My question is, when you're discussing something biblically, biblical ethic, like... Yeah, like something, like don't have sex outside marriage. And they have a different view. How would you go about that discussion without coming across elder brotherish, even though you might even have those elder brotherish kind of, Sometimes I have those other issues. That's a great question. But I see, actually I was going to ask you about that, but I saw here that the reason that you obey is to enjoy God or to get God. Yeah. I'll give you three answers to your question. You already caught one of them. You have to talk to them about the motivation. So one of the things, when you're presenting this, you've got to say, now look, the reason we believe in this is God,

God, but I want to experience God's best for me. And I believe this is God actually giving. See, in other words, I believe the law is an expression of grace. I believe when God says, do this and don't do this, what he's saying is I built you and I built the human race. So I know how the human race will work best. I know how your nature works. So for example, forgiving is hard work. The Bible commands you to forgive, but do you say, oh, I guess I better forgive people, otherwise God will send me to hell. Well, you know what? Frankly, if you forgive people, but you don't understand the gospel, you're lost anyway, because you're a self-saver. You're saving yourself through forgiving people. You're saying, I'm a forgiving person. So you see, the law, unless you understand the reason you're doing the law, obeying the law is no good. To say, I'm a chaste person, I don't have sex outside marriage, that's a wonderful way for you to become a hardened Pharisee. What you first have to say believe the gospel. And once you believe the gospel, then you say, now I see the law as God's gift to me and his expression of grace. The other thing you have to do, I'm going to give you two answers to this just so I can go to some other. So one is you have to explain how the law fits into the gospel and how the law, the motivation for the law, obedience, how it works. Now, what if the person actually says, well, I just don't think there's anything in the Bible about that? You say, okay, well, let's talk about that. Let's study it. You know, I know that, you know, sometimes there's passages that... Your attitude. If you get your back up, if you get defensive, if your throat gets constricted when people start to question you, you know, look, when you go... You may try real hard to be nice when someone questions you, and yet your throat... You kind of get upset. And it's pretty clear that you're upset. And you don't like being questioned. And you try to be nice. When you go home, repent and say, you know what? I guess I don't really have the gospel in my heart as deeply as I ought when people argue with me. I would be more relaxed. I mean, the best, best, you know, sales, how do I say, the best way to sell the gospel is your attitude to people who don't agree with you, you know, the graciousness and your own security as you do it. So, your attitude and then trying to put what the Bible says ethically in the bigger context of the gospel, But there is stuff in the handout about it. Great. Great question. Yeah. Hey, Tim. This question kind of follows right after that thought, which is, what do you do in a situation when, again, you're seeing some behavior that you're pretty convicted is not biblical? In somebody else, you mean? Yes. Okay. The problem is that person, although they do seem very much that they grasp the gospel, they are wrestling with the idea of biblical authority. And, you know, being that is usually seems like kind of the framework that you have to start out. Yeah, you're right. You're right. OK, I'm sorry I've interrupted you. No. So how do you how do you. Yeah. Well, where do you go from there? Where do you go from there? When you say wrestles with biblical authority, you mean they struggle with whether all the Bible, I have to obey every single part of the Bible, is that it? Or that, you know, the Bible is… Yeah, all right. Authoritative. Right. Okay. Okay, here's the quick. You need as much as you can to even put the authority of the Bible into a grace context. And the way to do that, I don't do it all the time. But when I argue for the Bible's authority, actually, without mentioning the Bible, I did it on Sunday, yesterday, when I said, if you have a personal relationship with God, this has got to be a God. If God is a real person, then this person can contradict you. I said, if you've ever been a relationship, I mean, listen, feel free to use this illustration. The Stepford Wives, evidently, Stepford is a little place in Connecticut where the men have decided, I never want my wife to ever speak back to me, so they put little microchips in their heads. Isn't that the way it works? And so whenever the husband says something, the wife says, yes, dear, yes, dear, yes, dear. If you don't have an authoritative Bible, you've got a Stepford God. You've got a God who can't contradict you, can't tell you something you hate. Basically, you don't actually have a personal relationship with God. essentially have created. And therefore, the reason you need biblical authority is I want you to have a love relationship with this God. All love relationships, real good marriages, there's give and take. You don't have a marriage if your spouse always says, yes, dear, yes, dear, yes, dear. Don't use that tonight. So, in other words, you need to put biblical authority into the broader context of grace and say, again, just like the individual laws, the very idea of biblical authority has to be seen as an instrument of God's grace. Okay? Sure. You may have just answered this, but how do you respond to someone whose attitude is, I was saved at some point in my life, so it doesn't matter now what I do?

How do you respond to them to say that it isn't just a simple act of being saved, but it is the heart changing you're saying because I know I'm saved by grace and it has nothing to do with works now I can live any way I want I've lost my motivation yeah okay well there's actually something I think it's in the handout but here's what you'd say you say when you if when you got rid of fear of punishment, you lost all motivation for pleasing God, then the only motivation you ever had for pleasing God was fear. So when you lose your fear, you have no motivation. The only motivation you ever had was fear. And you had to say, is there anybody in your whole life that you do their will, not because you're afraid of them, but because you love them? Is there anybody at all? Of course, it's sort of an insulting question, but maybe the person needs to be a little punched out. I don't know. And as soon as the person says yes, you say, well, then why in the world? You know, I'm sure that person is a very worthy person, but how much more worthy than God? So you just simply have to start talking about the, well, you know, when the Bible says faith without works is dead,

what it's really trying to say is you may say I know God saved me by grace but you really don't because if you know God saved you by grace there would be the motivation of grateful joy and probably the classic, it's a little bit old and it's a little bit convoluted and it's translated from the German and anything translated in German and Dutch is very hard to read however, you ought to read Dietrich Bonhoeffer's book which is the cost of discipleship. And his whole point was that the German Lutheran church had so stressed not the costliness of grace, but just grace. You know, you're saved and you're fine. And he believed because of that, because of what he called cheap grace, there was no passion for conformity to Christ's likeness. And he actually believes that's one of the reasons Nazi regime was able to pretty much knock the whole German church over and they all capitulated and they kind of got into line. That's what the whole book is about. It's a scary book. But what he would try to point out is cheap grace, the opposite of cheap grace is not moralism. It's costly grace. That's the key, which is what I try to get across. Costly grace is not just that God gave you this grace, but a holy God gave you this grace at infinite cost, and that's what changes you. So if you say, I have no motivation to live a good life, what you have to say is, when you were a moralist, you had fear. And now, you obviously don't understand costly grace or you'd have this desire to love. Anything that's beautiful, you just want to do something about it. Show them the place where C.S. Lewis says, anything that really captures your heart, you want to grab other people and say, look at this painting, listen to this music. He says, anything you really love, you praise. And so if what God has done for you in Jesus Christ, if you see the costliness of it, it moves you, and then you want to bring other people to praise him. So that's witnessing, and that's evangelism, and that's justice. So those are some ideas, but I think that some of them are in the handout. One more. I got three minutes, I think. One more. Yeah, go ahead. Hi. I've actually had this question for a while, and it ties in. You mentioned that you never somebody and say, I really don't think that you're a born again Christian. Now, I don't think that's where I could say that to people on the street who've never, you know, who don't go to church. You can say, I know you're not a Christian. Say, sure. Right. But I'm talking about a person in the church. Right. Somebody who believes himself to be a Christian. Right. So I've never run into anybody who said that. But I found over and over in conversation, particularly in terms of dating, people will often come up to me and say, I met this person and he or she is really great. and they go to church, but I don't think they're a Christian. And I often find myself as a leader sort of fishing about for any kind of good answer to that statement. And I wondered if you could give me some thoughts on that. Sure. Listen, even there, when it says unequally yoked, when it says people shouldn't get married if they're unequally yoked, I don't think that's just talking about somebody who's just barely over the line. We're talking about people who are tracking together who are on the same page spiritually. And so what you'll need to say is this is a person who needs to be roughly at the same place you are, as far along, similar concerns and priorities. So you see, if the person says, oh, I'm pretty... The person says they're a Christian. I don't care. You see? So what if they say they're a Christian? What I want to know is are they as passionate as you or are they way behind you? Are they as... Now, if you see a person who's a babier Christian, you know, further behind, but on a really great trajectory. It's a little different, but we've got to talk about passion level, priority level, centrality level. Is Jesus in his suburbs or is Jesus downtown of his life? Or is Jesus out in the exurbs or way out there? Since basically you want a spiritual compatibility, not just here's this circle, here's the Christians, here's the non-Christians, and anybody inside this circle, regardless of their trajectory, is fair game for spousehood. No, not necessarily. By the way, inside that circle, you've got people who are moving this way. They're moving away from the center of Jesus. You can tell they're cooling off, and yet they're still professing Christians. Maybe they go to church every so often. Okay, I can marry her or him because they're Christians. That's just stupid. So, in other words, here's your circle, and if you're moving this way and your arrow is really big, then this person's arrow needs to be pretty big moving this way, not static or moving this way. So don't give me this, oh, he's a Christian or she's a Christian. I want to know whether they're spiritually tracking. And ordinarily, when you know the person is rationalizing and saying, but they go to church or they're baptized or they say they're Christian, so they're eligible, the answer is you need to press them a little bit more about deeper compatibility issues, not just, you know, whether the person is barely inside. side. That's it. I am now going to turn over the podium to Bruce, who's going to tell us what we're doing next.
