Now, the Apostles' Creed, I believe in God the Father Almighty, Maker of Heaven and Earth, Jesus Christ, His only Son, our Lord. Many of you have heard it, maybe most of you. It's a creed universally acknowledged by all Christian churches as a fundamental creed. It is a summary of Christian teaching that was actually developed by the earliest church. There's a lot of people that say, well, who needs a creed?

Have you ever seen a tract, have you ever seen a tract, maybe or a little booklet, that says how to become a Christian? And you read it, and when it gets to the end it says, so just believe everything. Everything the Bible teaches, all Christian truth, just believe it, just believe everything, and you'll be a Christian. No, they don't do that. What do they say? Even today, the average booklet or the average brochure on how to become a Christian, it says now if you want to become a Christian, Say this. And it usually is a prayer. It's in the form of a prayer usually. But it's essentially what? It says, Lord, I believe this and I see this and I agree on this and now I do this. You know what that is? It's a creed. It's a summary of the essence of what you need to believe, the essence of what the Bible teaches, the essence of Christian teaching,

the essence you have to subscribe to in order to connect to God and be a Christian. Now, the very earliest church developed the Apostles' Creed was their version of what today is sometimes called a sinner's prayer, only it's not done in the form of a prayer. If you wanted to be baptized, if you wanted to take the Lord's Supper, they would say, well, do you believe? And this is what you said. Yes, I believe, and this was a summary. It was developed by the most ancient church. Now, what we're going to do each week for several weeks is I'm going to actually take a word, and then the next word and the next word. There's a series of words in the Apostles' Creed. a series of words, and we're going to look at some passage in John's Gospel, in the writings of Saint John, that expounds and explains the words. So you have believe, that's today. What does it mean to believe? I believe. God the Father Almighty, a creator of heaven and earth, earth. Lord, judge, church, sin, spirit. Those are important words. And why is it so important to know them? We live in a time in which people are seeking spiritually, but we don't have a very good vocabulary. For example, if I would go out and try to tell you what clouds are out there, if you sent me outside to look at the clouds, come back and tell you, I don't have a very big vocabulary I kind of vaguely remember in eighth grade science class words like cumulus, but basically my vocabulary for clouds is high and wispy, soft and fluffy, and big and dark and threatening. But if you're a meteorologist, what if you had 70 words for clouds, 70 names for kinds of clouds? And what if you knew all 70 of those words? When you walked out there to look at clouds, you would look at them differently than the rest of us. You'd look for things that the words force you to see things. The words help you see them better. In other words, the more words you have to see something, the better you see it. The more words you have for something that you're seeing, the better you see it. Now the trouble with many of us today is that as we're talking about God and we're thinking about spiritual things, do you really have a vocabulary? Do you know what atonement means? Do you know what judgment means? Do you know what holiness means?

there's no better place to look than the Apostles' Creed and then what the Bible says to expound. And today what we're going to do is we're going to first of all take the first word as we're developing a spiritual vocabulary and as we're developing, trying to really make sure we understand what these words mean. Sometimes you use the words, you don't know what they mean. It's always very embarrassing. Occasionally I'll use a word and I'll say, it was very ironic. And somebody who really knows what the word means says, what do you think that word means? You're not quite using it right. Oh, how embarrassing. I'm afraid a lot of us use words like faith, but do you know what it means? Now, I'm going to read you this passage out of John, because John, in these 18 verses, gives you a complete guide. You have almost in here, you learn enough about faith that essentially tells you everything the Bible says else and the rest of the Bible about faith. This is John 20, verses 1 to 18. It's a famous passage. It to know. Early on the first day of the week, while it was still dark, Mary Magdalene went to the tomb and saw that the stone had been removed from the entrance. So she came running to Simon Peter and the other disciple, the one Jesus loved, and said, they've taken the Lord out of the tomb and we don't know where they have put him. So Peter and the other disciple started for the tomb. Both were running, but the other disciple outran Peter and reached the tomb first. He bent over and looked in but did not go in. Then Simon Peter, who was behind him, arrived and went into the tomb. He saw the strips of linen lying there, as well as the burial cloth that had been around Jesus' head. The cloth was folded up by itself, separate from the linen. Finally, the other disciple, who had reached the tomb first, also went inside. He saw and believed. They still did not understand from Scripture that Jesus had to rise from the dead. Then the disciples went back to their homes, crying. And as she wept, she bent over to look into the tomb and saw two angels in white, seated where Jesus' body had been, one at the head and the other at the foot. They asked her, Woman, why are you crying? They have taken my Lord away, she said, and I don't know where they have put him. At this she turned around and saw Jesus standing there, but she did not realize that it was Jesus. Woman, he said, why are you crying? Who is it you are looking for? thinking he was the gardener she said sir if you have carried him away tell me where you have put him and I will get him and Jesus said to her Mary she turned toward him and cried out in Aramaic Rabboni which means teacher Jesus said do not hold on to me for I have not yet returned to the father go instead to my brothers and tell them I'm returning to my father and your father to my God and your God. Mary Magdalene went to the disciples with the news, I have seen the Lord. And she told them that he had said these things to her. That's God's word. Six things you learn about faith. Ready? First of all, we learn here, and this is very important, is a very, very important biblical part of what the Bible tells us about faith. First thing we learn here is that faith is impossible.

God connecting faith is something you're not capable of. Look carefully. Peter and John don't even go to the tomb on Easter Sunday morning. Not until they're called. Mary goes to the tomb, but when she sees that the stone rolled away, she says, oh, somebody stole the body. Now, let's think of the implications of this. Jesus Christ had claimed and had taught and had asserted over and over again he was going to die and rise. He was going to die and rise on the third day. He claimed it so often. He said it so many times that even his enemies knew about it. That's why they put the guards there. In other words, Jesus, this is not just something he once or twice kind of got his disciples and said, I'm going to die and rise again. He said this all the time. that all through the Gospels, he's constantly saying, the Son of Man came not to be served, but to serve and give his life a ransom for many. He's going to suffer. He's going to be rejected at the hands of the scribes and the Pharisees and the teachers of the law, but he will rise again over and over and over. So often that his enemies had put a guard on the tomb. And so here's Peter, here's John, here's Mary, and all the disciples really. They have lived with Jesus. They have watched him do miracles. They have heard his incredible teaching, and they loved him, especially Mary. You can just see by everything else we see in the passage. They didn't just feel positive. They loved him. And they didn't believe, in spite of all this, they didn't believe the most basic, essential thing he said about himself. On Sunday morning,

over and over again, they said, he's going to die, and I'm going to rise. Sunday morning, Peter and John don't even go to look. They're not even curious. Okay? And Mary, when she goes, she's heard over and over and over again. He's, I'm going to rise. I'm going to rise. I'm going to rise. She goes. She sees the stone rolled away. And what does she say? Shouldn't she say at least, could it be? But no, she doesn't. Now, what does this tell you? This tells you that God connecting faith, faith in the gospel, not faith in the Jesus that you would like to believe in, but the faith in the Jesus that he says he is, the faith in the real Jesus. Real, spiritual, God connecting faith is not something you're capable of. If they couldn't do it, they were walking with him and they were talking with him and they saw the miracles and they loved him and they cared about him and yet the one thing that he says the essential to understanding who I am, they couldn't believe it. What does that mean? Without God's help you can't believe. believe. That's very practical. Oh, yes, it is. For example, let me just, let me apply it for a second. Let me show you how practical to two kinds of people. Let's just say you're, you say, well, I'm not a Christian. I'm interested somewhat. That's kind of one of the reasons I'm here tonight. I'm sort of interested. I'd like to hear more about it. I'm a little, you know, interested in kind of, but I'm not really a Christian. I'm interested in faith. In fact, I wouldn't mind having more faith. All right. Think about this. Whenever you feel interested, whenever you find yourself being attracted, like what if tonight, what if tonight something strikes you, something here, you know, you say, wow, Christianity is maybe a little more coherent and cogent and interesting than I thought, and I hadn't thought of that. What if you start to feel something? What if you start to feel attracted? You'd like to study some more, but then you say, nah, next week, next year, when I'm older, You know, when I've put on a little weight or something. You know, when I can't have as much fun as I can. I mean, later on. I'll do it later on. Wait a minute. What is your assumption? When you do that, what is your assumption? You're assuming that you can turn faith on and off anytime you want. That you don't need God's help. You can just do it yourself. What makes you think that's true?

The Bible says when you're starting to feel some interest, it's because God's knocking. Now listen. If somebody's knocking and you say, well, I'll get it tomorrow. they're not going to be there. Even if they come back, which hopefully they will, you've got to open a door when they're there, when they're knocking. You can't just say, well, listen, if there is a God, he created the universe, right? And if there's a God who created the universe, do you think you could ever possibly meet him by saying, well, when I'm ready, you jump. How dare you talk to a God like that? Let's be rational. If there is a God universe, how could you possibly say, well, you know, some other time? You know, if somebody calls up and says, you know, we're thinking of giving you the job of being a CEO of a major Fortune 500 company. Could you please be here tomorrow at four o'clock? And you say, well, maybe next week. Something's wrong with you. You clearly are not being rational. You're clearly not being objective. And see, what we're trying to say is you have to see that you're not capable of this unless God helps. When you find yourself moving in that direction, then you work with him. You cooperate with him. You don't just say, some other time. On the other hand, one more thing. Let's just say you're a Christian. And I'm just telling you that you need to see, you need to, it's very practical to know that faith is impossible. You say, well, I already know that. Some of you are saying, well, I'm a Christian and I've heard this idea that faith is a gift. gift. I've heard this idea that faith isn't something I can just womp up when I want, but it's something that is a gift from God and he comes and he helps me and so on. I understand that. I know that. I know that, you say. Do you really? I don't know. Here's why I don't know. In fact, I don't think most of us do at all know that faith is impossible. And here's why. When you look at other people, especially the most broken or the most angry or the people most enslaved to habits or the people who, let's frankly, are really the most hostile and nasty. When you look at people who are like that, do you have real hope? Do you reach out to them in love? Or do you say, that's not the kind of person that's ever going to really believe. That's not a very likely kind of person to ever believe. Oh, oh, really? And you are? When you've lost hope for anybody else in your life, any friend, any relative, your boss, the boss you hate so much, when you've lost hope for anybody, that means you don't know your own faith is a miracle. You know that. You may say, oh, I believe faith is a gift. I believe faith is impossible. It's a gift. Well, you don't know that. You're acting as if you're the nice kind of person who believes, nasty, broken, messed up kind of person who can't believe, why in the world would you look at them that way? If you know faith is impossible, that means that you have an enormous amount of hope for virtually everybody. You treat everybody as if anything could happen. Your life could be revolutionized. You could be changed. I'm going to love you. I'm going to pray for you. I'm going to care for you. I'm going to reach out to you because who knows? It's sort of like the lotto. Hey, you never know. It's just the divine lotto. In other words, that's really true. Drew, when I look at somebody who seems hopeless and I lose hope for that person, that person ever coming around, that person ever waking up, that person ever softening their heart, then I have forgotten that I'm a miracle. You know, if you really knew your faith was impossible and it is a result of a miracle, you would be walking around with a lot more joy than you have and you'd be walking around with a lot more hope for other people than you have. Do you really believe faith is impossible? You don't. I don't. but know it. Sink it down in. Push it down in. Know it. Please know it. Faith is impossible. Second thing we learn here, counterpoint. Faith is rational. Very rational. Take a look here at verse six. Simon Peter, who was behind him, arrived and went into the tomb. He saw the strips of linen lying there. Now, I guess there's no other way to translate that, but you need to know what it's actually saying, the word that's actually translated saw there is a Greek word, theoreo. And theoreo is a word from which we get our word theorize. And you can guess what it means. It means to think, to think hard, to think and to reason out in a sustained way, to reason and think out. Now, this is not a sermon on the resurrection. If you've been around Redeemer, you know that we've preached on this before. time usually, because it's a great sermon on how do we know the resurrection happened and what happened to the resurrection. I'm not going to talk about that. I'm here tonight, we're here to talk about this as a complete guide to faith. But just for a second, what is he thinking about? He's looking at the grave clothes and it says they're all laid out beautifully. And you know what's going on. What he's really trying to say, he says, now wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute. If he revived and got up, the grave clothes would be all ripped. it wouldn't be sort of nice and neatly you know laid out like this if somebody stole the body you would leave the grave clothes behind if friends stole the body they wouldn't dishonor the body by carrying it away naked and if enemies stole the body they wouldn't leave the grave clothes behind with all the ointments and with all the spices and the things that keep it from smelling and decaying and then not only that but one if you read it real carefully one commentator puts it this way it's very interesting it says when the reason peter was looking at the grave clothes were lying, he saw the strips of linen lying there. And this is what the commentator says. Michael Green says, the way the linens were lying meant they were still wound around, but empty. As if the body had just passed through them like a chrysalis after a butterfly had left. And see, so what's going on? Peter is saying, okay, the body's gone. Well, maybe, no, that couldn't be it. Well, maybe. No, that couldn't be it. Well, maybe. No, that couldn't be it. Well, maybe. Well, how in the world did you even get, how does a body get out of, wait a minute. Now, what's he doing? He's furiously thinking. He's reasoning. He's thinking. Now, what do we learn? One of the things we learn that faith may be, I've said this before, faith may be more than thinking. Of course it's more than thinking. It's commitment. It's it's love, it's all, but it's not less. Faith is not primarily a feeling. Faith may lead to feelings, but at first, faith is thinking about the truth. It's thinking out the truth. It's looking at the evidence. It's reasoning. Now you see what an incredible counterpoint this is? If I only said to you, or if the Bible only said to you, faith is impossible, then you might have this mystical idea, well, I just wait for the lightning to hit me. But here we also see faith is not just mystical and possible and the result of the intervention of God, it's also rational.

It's also the result of thinking. You get out the data. You think about it. You read what the Bible says. You read what the narrators say about Jesus. You think the things out. You can't be passive. You mustn't be passive. It's very wrong to be passive. In fact, that's what this perfect counterpoint is. In fact, if you look carefully, what this is telling you is it's not a good idea wait for something to hit you. You need to think things out. The Bible's view is utterly different than what everybody else in New York is going to tell you. Here's what everybody's going to tell you. They're going to say, it doesn't matter so much what you believe as long as you believe it with all your heart. Right? Know what they say? Oh, it doesn't matter you have this religion, that. It doesn't matter so much what you believe in as long as you believe it with all your heart. Now, what do we have in this passage? Absolute contradiction to that. Absolute other opposite. First of all, here's Peter, here's John, and here's Mary. And they're all kind of, their faith is all so imperfect and distorted and screwed up and messed up and blown apart. And they're all what? But they're all looking toward Jesus. And here's the point. Everybody else says it doesn't matter what you believe as long as you believe with all their heart. The Bible says it doesn't matter whether you believe with all their heart as long as you're believing the truth.

Mr. A, here's Mr. A and Mr. B, and they're going up on ladders. And Mr. A is confidently walking up a ladder that is absolutely too weak to hold up his weight. And here's Mr. B, and he's scared, and he's with, you know, fear and trembling and filled with doubts. He's crawling up a ladder that's absolutely strong enough to bear his weight. What is the result? One man is climbing with great faith, and one man is climbing with horribly little, tiny faith. What's going to happen? It has nothing to do. going to come plummeting down. Mr. B is going to be safe. Why? It has nothing to do with the strength of their faith. It has everything to do with the strength of the ladders.

If you believe strongly in something that's not the truth, you're going down. If you believe just barely in something which is the truth, you're going up. That's exactly different than what the world says. On the other hand, it's just common sense. And what the Bible is telling you is don't come to Jesus Christ because he's exciting. Don't come to Jesus Christ you. Hitler was exciting. Hitler inspired. I mean, his meetings were wonderful. But he wasn't true. He was a false Messiah. Don't come to Jesus because he's relevant. If he's true, he'll be relevant. Don't come to Jesus because he's practical. If he's true, he'll be practical. Don't come to Jesus because he's moving. If he's true, he'll be moving. But if he's not who he says he is, if he's not the ideal become real, if he's not God broken into history, if he didn't really do the things he said he did, If he didn't really rise from the dead, so people actually saw him and felt him and touched him, if that didn't happen, he's not relevant. He's not practical. He's not moving. But if he is true, he'll be all those things. So don't ask, oh, how does this affect me? Think, theoreo. Think it out. Look at it, all right? Third, faith is impossible, but faith is rational. Third, faith is humble. humble. Look at verse 9, where it says, they still did not understand from the scriptures that Jesus had to rise from the dead. What is that? The operative word is had. Do you know what this is?

Why is it? Now, we didn't say, but let me go back to what we said in the very beginning. Here's Peter, here's John, and here's Mary. Every day, the Lord that they loved, the Lord that they just worshipped, the Lord that they talked about, the Lord that they sat and they took notes, and every single day, he said, I'm going to die, I'm going to die, I'm going to die, I'm going to die, I'm going to die. Almost every day. Read it in the Bible. Okay, now think about this for a second. I'm going to die, I'm going to die, I'm going to die, I'm going to die. And then they died, and everybody went, what happened? What happened?

what was wrong with those people he told them over and over again they said he believed in them and here's why they had a paradigm they had a paradigm in their little heads and the paradigm was like a grid so that when they heard him say these things they screened out everything that didn't fit in with their little paradigm and here's what their paradigm was he didn't really have to die because they really weren't that bad because they really weren't needy because they really weren't that weak let me give you let me let me fish you read the scriptures and you look at the disciples and every one of them were shocked when he died every one of them they were decimated they were despair even though over and over and over again it the Son of Man has to die anyway why well because some of them are going to have they had two kinds of paradigms that really at the bottom of the same some of them felt that what they really needed was a moral teacher and some of you feel that way they need a teacher of somebody that will tell me how I should live. And if I live right and I do right, then God will bless me. See, a moral teacher not only doesn't have to die, but he better not die. Because if he dies, if God abandons him, then that shows that maybe he wasn't all that great. Maybe he's not that good an example. So here's this moral teacher and they were looking to him to tell them how to live. And then he's killed and they say, well, maybe he's not as great as I thought he was. If you're a really moral, godly man, then God will be with you. God will bless you. What's the matter? On the other hand, you had other people who were not conservatives who were looking for a moral virtue teacher. They were liberationists who were looking for social activism. And these were people who said, we need a Messiah, yes, but we want a Messiah who will rally the troops and help us to throw off the yoke of Roman oppression. But when the Messiah dies, they say, wait a minute, wait a minute. it. I don't need a Messiah who's captured. I need a Messiah who's capturing. I don't need a Messiah who's weak. I need a Messiah who's strong. I don't need a Messiah who's being judged. I need a Messiah who's judging. What good is the Messiah who's dying? In other words, on the one hand, the conservatives, on the one hand, the liberationists, they seem very different. Here's the Pharisee types, and here's the liberationists and the zealots. But underneath, what do they have in common. I'll tell you what they have in common. They're very different from each other on the surface, you know, sort of Republicans and Democrats, you know, at each other's throats. But underneath, they're shocked when Jesus dies because they don't think he has to die. They don't think they're that bad off. If you really look at Jesus as a moral teacher, that means that you think you're good enough that as long as he just tells you what you should do, you can do it. If you really think of Jesus Christ as basically a liberationist, you really think that the problem out there and you don't realize how wicked and corrupt your own heart is and that your heart is the reason for the problems of the world. Now, what I'm saying right now, let me just, let me say it in the most offensive possible way. Okay. And you say, you mean you haven't been? No, not yet. Until you see that you are a wicked, hopeless, helpless sinner, your faith in Jesus will just be superficial. You really won't have any faith. You'll be around Jesus but not really know him. These people have been around him and around him and around him over and over and over. He said to them the one thing I'm here to do is to die. I'd like to teach but that's not the main thing. I am going to liberate the poor. I do care about the poor but that's not the main thing. Or another way to put it is the only way I'll ever make you good and the only way I'll ever liberate people is if the main thing I'm here to do is to die under again. Now, they didn't hear it. They did not know him for who he was. They thought they knew him and they didn't. They were around him and around him and around him. They hadn't touched him. Their lives hadn't been transformed by him. Why? Because they didn't know he had to die. That's what verse 9 says. That's the reason why Peter and John and Mary didn't get it. They couldn't see why in the world he had to die because they didn't realize their spiritual, radical, deep cosmic neediness. sinness. They didn't see that they were hopeless sinners. There was a conservative version of that said, oh, I'm a good enough person, just give me a moral teacher. And there's a liberal version of that. They say, basically, I'm on the side of the right and I'm going to, you know, liberate the oppressed. But it came right down to it. Because they didn't see their sin, they couldn't believe. They thought they believed, but they didn't. It was very superficial. It was very intellectual. It was very cognitive only. Their lives had not been revolutionized. And that's where most of us are. Most of us. If you were raised in a church and you say, well, I've always believed in Jesus. And I always believe. Has your life ever been turned utterly upside down? Do you ever weep when you pray? Not because you're unhappy, but because you're happy. If that doesn't happen to you, and I'm not just talking to women, I'm talking to men, to people from the southern hemisphere. I'm talking to people from the northern hemisphere.

If that doesn't happen to you, that's because you really don't know that Jesus had to die for you. You don't see that there was no other way. You really don't see your cosmic neediness. And because you haven't been humbled, because life hasn't yet shown you, you're still in denial of how weak you are and how enslaved you are. And how sinful you are, because you haven't seen that. Your relationship to Jesus Christ cognitive one, it's completely superficial, hasn't changed you. If real faith is humbled, it's humble. But then, here's the fourth point, and it's another counterpoint. We said mystical but rational. We said it's humbling, you're not going to believe unless you see how weak you are, but on the other hand, it's graceful. Impossible, rational,

humble, graceful. And by the way, graceful has to be spelled with two L's, or you don't understand Graceful. Two L's. You see what I'm saying? Because the fourth point is, you can't believe until you have had an experience of God's grace. When Jesus Christ reveals himself to Mary, we need to ask ourselves why. See, it's a beautiful picture. This is one of the most beautiful spots in the Bible. Look at the detail. No fiction writer would have written it up this way. Look at verse 10. As she wept, she bent over to look into the tomb. That's because that tomb was low ceiling and you could not walk in and stand up. You could only be in there basically to bent over. See, if you were a fiction writer, you wouldn't have made that up. This is a memory. This is an eyewitness account. She remembers this. Verse 18 says, she came and told everybody and they wrote it down. She bent over to look into the tomb and she saw two angels in white. Now, Now, anybody else who has ever met angels in all of the Bible falls down quaking. Mary was so focused on finding her Lord that she either didn't see that they were angels or she didn't care that they were angels. And when she meets this person who she thinks is a robber, she thinks is a robber.

What does she say? She says, give him to me. I mean, she is so focused. She is so relentless. She is so fearless. And then we say, she didn't recognize him. And Jesus says, Mary. And you know what? I don't know why they do this to you. It says, she said, Rabboni. But you know what Rabboni means? They say it just means teacher. But you ought to know even, remember the place on the cross where Jesus says, Eli, Eli, lemme sammich thani? Eli means not God. The word El is God. But Eli means, is a possessive. It means my God. My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? When she says Rabboni,

She's not saying, her professor. She's saying, my teacher.

Now, this is really beautiful, but what in the world does it mean? Here's what it means. Jesus Christ could have easily revealed himself to John or Peter. Why didn't he? Or he could have waited for somebody else. Why didn't he? Let me ask you a little series of questions. Why did he choose her? Do you realize for one brief moment, she was the entire church. She was the one person who was a witness of the resurrection taking it to the rest of the world. He did this deliberately. Why did he choose her first to show us what we were supposed to be like? Well, let me push it a little further. Peter and John didn't even come, but she came. And then they didn't stay, but she stayed. And why did she outperform them? I'll tell you why. I'll tell you why. why. When Peter and John and all the other disciples were listening to Jesus Christ teach them, he said to them, you can be children of God. And what did they say? They said,

yeah, yeah, we always thought so. But when he said to Mary Magdalene, you can be a child of God, who was Mary Magdalene? We're told in Luke 8 verse 3 that she had seven demons cast out of her. and when God and when Jesus said you can be a child of God she said me?

Do you know who I am? I have spent years walking around the streets talking to myself muttering crying screaming half undressed do you know who I am? I'm the wild woman I'm the homeless woman I'm the person that walks around me? A Christian? A child of God? who is going to be changed the most by the teaching? Don't you see? Jesus said, the one who forgives most loves most. And because Peter and John had a little teeny understanding that yeah, I know, Jesus loves me, merciful in spite of my merits. Listen, there is no more clear way that Jesus Christ could be saying on Easter Sunday that his salvation comes to people not on the basis of pedigree, not on the basis of merit, religion, not on the basis of morality, not on the basis of achievement. He couldn't be more clear to say, I did not come as a teacher, but as a savior. I did not come from the strong, but from the people who know that they're weak.

I did not come to save you on the basis of your work, on the basis of my work. He couldn't be more strong. But here's what he's trying to show us. The person who does understand

her weakness most profoundly is the one who when she experiences the love of Jesus Christ becomes the most profoundly fearless. If you are not filled with fearlessness like she, if you are not filled with passion for Jesus, if there's no crying and weeping and joy in your faith, it's because you think you're better than Mary. Simple as that. You have not had an experience of her grace. You have not, you haven't experienced grace And this is the idea. Faith is humble, but it's graceful. And that means if you just know that you're a terrible sinner and you don't know that Jesus loves you. When Jesus said Mary, what was he saying? Not Miss Magdalene? Mary. He was saying, I love you. See, if you know you're a sinner, but you don't know how much he loves you, you don't have real faith. If you, on the other hand, say, oh, I know God loves me, but you don't see he had to die, you don't have real faith either. So faith is impossible, but it's rational. It's humble, but it's graceful. Now, lastly, it's palpable. Now, where do I get that? There's this remarkable place in verse 17 where Jesus says, Do not hold on to me, for I have not yet returned to my Father. What's that? Now, this is a little better translation than the older translations that said, where Jesus said, Don't touch me. don't touch me, it sounds like Mary has taken a step toward him and he's saying, don't must me. It sounds like he's saying, I'm holy, you'll be burnt, or I don't know. You know, but you see, actually, this is a little better translation, but I'll tell you the verb, Jesus used a special verb, and the verb is, don't hold me so tight. Now, that must mean that she'd already grabbed him. And there's actually no indication in the Bible that she wasn't allowed to touch him, actually in Matthew 28. We were told that after the resurrection, women came and saw him and they grabbed his feet and he didn't say anything about it. It was, there's no magic stuff. That's not the issue. What is he saying? When she grabs him that tightly and then he says, don't grab me this tightly. I'm going to my father. He's certainly not saying, let me go. I can't, I can't arise because you're holding me down. No, he's not saying that either. Here's what he's saying. He's saying, Mary, you want intimacy. You want my arms around you and you want your arms around me. You don't want to just believe in me. You don't want to just follow me. You want me. You want a visceral sense of my presence and my love surrounding you. Guess what? If you let me go to the Father, you're going to have something better than this. This isn't the way to get it. Don't you realize, Mary, you've touched me before. You've hugged me before. We've held each other before, you know. I mean, John and Peter and Mary, they actually hug Jesus, all of them. kissed Jesus, probably all of them, but they hadn't really experienced his love on their heart. Jesus Christ is saying, I'm about to go to the Father. I'm going to sit at his right hand, and I'm going to send the Holy Spirit, and when I do that, your faith will actually give you a sense of my palpable, concrete presence, greater than anything you ever had when we were walking together on earth. Isn't that amazing? You say, how in the world can we get that? Charles Spurgeon, the great Baptist preacher put it this way. He was talking about his prayer life when he said, sometimes in prayer we've known what it is to be too happy to live. Sometimes I've had to ask him, I can't believe this, sometimes I've had to ask him to stay his hand because the love, the glory, and the joy was coming into my heart in ways too great to bear.

Mary had never really had that. John and Peter had never had that. And Jesus says, if I go to the Father and you exercise faith, but rational, humble, but graceful, you'll be able to have me, really literally have me. Do you have him? Lastly, last, last, last. It's a complete guide. Faith is impossible, but it's rational. It's humble, but it's graceful. It's palpable, but it's individual. Isn't it interesting that every one of these people is coming to Jesus in a different way? Look it. Peter comes, and he's thinking and thinking and thinking, but he doesn't believe by the time that... He has to go home and think about it. He hasn't believed yet. Here's the ultimate rational approach. John comes, and he thinks a little bit. See, he says he saw and believed. Over. Whoop. Okay? Mary. Poor Mary. I mean, she's just... You see, they're working on the thinking. is just crying and weeping and running around and mistaking angels and Jesus for robbers and everything and all that. And I mean, she's got the mystical but not the rational. They've got the rational but not the mystical. They have some sense of love but maybe not much of a sense of their sin. She certainly has a deep sense of sin and now she really, really, really has a sense of his love. But look, they're all coming in their own way. They're all coming in different paths. They're going to have it all together. there's no one way of saying first step one, then step two. You have to be very, very careful not to compare yourself to other Christians. Say, well, that person became a Christian dramatically by walking forward at a service, so I have to. Why? When he says, Mary, what he's telling us all is, I know you individually. I know who you really are. I know you by name. I'm calling you by name. I'm not, your path is going to be individual. It's not going to be necessarily like the person very, very careful. That's one of the great adventures. Annie Dillard says in one of her pieces of writing, she's a great writer, she says, I'd been my whole life a bell, but I never knew it until I was lifted up and rung. And see, in faith, Jesus Christ is lifting you up, and you don't even know who you are until he calls you by name and you reverberate, is an individual. You are an individual person that you're never going to find the depths of your uniqueness and your distinct beauty until you know him by faith. There it is, a complete guide. It's impossible. So get to work. Let's pray. Our Father, we thank you for the beautiful tensions and balances of the Christian doctrine of faith. And I pray that you would help us. Some of us are here having had experiences of you, but we're really kind of short on our thinking and our knowledge. some of us are very long on knowledge, but we really have not been galvanized and thrilled and changed by Jesus. Some of us are just crushed under a weight of a sense of our insignificance and our inadequacies and our flaws. And we need to hear you say your word of grace to us. Others of us have this general understanding that we're good people and we're loved by God, but we really need to be humbled into our sin. Give us what we need. Give us what we need. so that we can cling to you. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.