Turn with me to Ephesians chapter 6, verses 10 through 13. Ephesians 6, 10 to 13. What we're going to do is we're going to start a small, but it may not be small. Oh, we're going to start a series on this passage, which is the classic text maybe in the scripture on spiritual warfare. And I'm just going to read, even though last week I read this, this is the very end of the book of Ephesians. I'd like to read to you just the beginning of this last section, the beginning of the end. This is chapter 6 of Ephesians, verses 10 through 13. Finally, be strong in the Lord and in his mighty power. Put on the full armor of God so that you can take your stand against the devil's schemes. For our struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the powers of this dark world, and against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly realms. Therefore, put on the full armor of God so that when the day of evil comes, you may be able to stand your ground, and after you have done everything, to stand. Now, by the way, I'm reverberating a little bit, right, Jonathan? Can you turn me down just a little bit? We're going to celebrate the Lord's Supper tonight, so I want to get right to the points of this passage. Last week, we basically made one point. I'll say it again to summarize and then move on. Last week we said real Christianity is a fight. And that a real Christian is known as much by your inner conflict as by your inner peace. When you cross the line into faith, not only do you find a new peace in Christ that you didn't have before, but you find a new conflict and a new inner warfare and a new fight going on that you didn't have before. Both of them are inevitable signs that you're really a Christian. you notice here it says, put on the armor. You're a soldier, see? It's the soldier image. Put on the armor of God. And then it says, for we wrestle not. Now, somebody says, well, you know, Paul, like a lot of ministers, wasn't real careful with his metaphor here. First he talks about soldiers fighting, and then he talks about wrestling. Now, soldiers don't wrestle, so he's mixed his metaphors up. Why would he say, put on the armor of God so you can wrestle? And the answer is, well, let's give Paul the benefit of the doubt. There are certain soldiers who wrestle. Desperate soldiers. See, soldiers on the front line. Soldiers where the battle is so bad, and so intense, and so intimate, and so life-threatening, and so desperate, that you're actually wrestling around on the ground with your enemy. The quartermasters don't wrestle. The people in the artillery don't wrestle. wrestle, it's the people up front in the very heat of the battle, the place where the battle will be won or lost. That's the soldiers who wrestle. And so let's just, let's give Paul the benefit of the doubt. And what he's saying is the battle we're talking about here is an extremely desperate battle. It's a close quarters battle. What Paul is saying is that every day is a battlefield. The world is a battlefield for your soul. Now, just so you don't think that I'm indulging in a typical homiletical hyperbole,

go look that one up. I want you to think about the ramifications of your understanding of what it means to be a human being. In some ways, there's really two views of a human being. One view is there's nothing to you but matter. There's nothing to you but the material. There's nothing to a human being but the chemicals. Nothing to a human being but the physical. That's it. When you die, that's the end. Your body falls apart. That's all there is to you. And the other view is that you not only have a body but a soul. That there's not only a material but an immaterial part to you. That there's a soul, which is not something that dies. But something that moves on. Now, you know, I think I may have mentioned this a week or two ago. People who really believe that human beings don't have souls can never, ever live consistently with that. You can't do it. Because if that's really true that a human being doesn't have a soul, what really makes a human being different than another bag of chemicals or from a tree or from a muskrat? What really makes them any different? And why do you treat them as different? And why do you give them the... treat them with respect and dignity that you don't give to any other configuration of chemicals on the face of the earth? Now, we all know inherently, and we have to live, even if you don't intellectually believe it, that we've got souls, that there's something about us that's immaterial and therefore doesn't die. Now, the classic understanding, the classic Christian understanding of a human being is that you have a soul and it goes on forever in one condition or another. What are those conditions. You know that if today you decide to do something selfish, it makes it easier tomorrow to do it again. Don't you remember, some of you, how horrified you were with yourself the first time you did something which now you do fairly regularly? It makes a mark on your soul. It gets easier and easier to do that. At first, you see, you grumble, but then after a while, the grumble sort of sinks in. So grumbling becomes part of not just what you do, but who you are. Now, we know that happens over a period of time. If you decide to cut people's throats in order to get up the corporate ladder, if you decide to elbow people aside, if you decide to be selfish and get up the corporate ladder, you've done something to your soul. And over 10 years, 20 years, 30 years, things change. And you become a more selfish person and a harder person. person. But what if, what if, what if the thing that you're really making a mark on is not your body so much, because your body eventually goes, but your soul? What if it's making a mark on your soul? And what if, you see, after 20 years of selfishness, you might be a little bit more of a grumpy, selfish person, but after two million years, what will you be like? See, if it's true that you're not just a bag of chemicals. That means that everybody in this room, 2 million, 2 billion years from now will still be alive as a personal being. And if that's true, the marks that you're making on your heart and the marks that you're making on your soul right now are going to affect you for all eternity. If you decide that you're not going to do the cutthroat thing, if you decide you're not going to do the selfish thing, you're not going to do the cruel thing, if you're going to do the honest thing or the compassionate thing Now, because you've done that, you haven't gotten ahead in your company the way some other people have. Don't worry about that because you're making marks on your soul. See, what happens is that the things that you do now count forever. And as one writer said, a zillion years from now, we're all going to be around, but we're going to be in very different conditions. We're either going to be, because of the marks we're putting on our soul, some of us in this room someday are going to be bright, radiant, immortal creatures, that are pulsating and glowing with glory and with joy and with love and with nobility and with power and with wisdom. And some other people in this room, and none of us really know who's who at this point, some of us are going to be like monsters because we are going to be so completely consumed with self-pity. After two zillion years, you know, the little spells of self-pity sink in. And you know what that does? It makes you feel sorry for yourself. It makes you mad at yourself. It makes you mad at the world. A monster, a person just wracked with self-pity and rage and bitterness and complete self-consciousness. If it's really true that we live forever, then right now counts forever. And the little marks you're putting on your soul are moving you in one direction or another. And Paul is saying every day, therefore, is a battlefield for your very soul. It's interesting. I didn't even know about this, but I found a little autobiographical sketch that Oscar Wilde did about himself in his later years. And he says something about himself, and right away when you think of Oscar Wilde, you'd have a tendency right away to think of his sexuality, and that's really a mistake. Listen to what he says. He's not talking about his sexuality at this point. Here's what he says. He says,

has to cry aloud from the housetop. I ceased to be lord over myself. I was no longer the captain of my soul, and I didn't know it. I allowed pleasure to dominate me, and I ended in horrible disgrace. Now, right away, you start immediately to say, well, is this a denunciation of Oscar Wilde's sexuality? He's not talking about that. But what he is talking about, he says, I didn't realize, here's the key right there, I forgot that every little action of the common day makes or unmixed character, and that therefore what one has done in the secret chamber someday will be cried, I will have to cry aloud from the housetop. And he was only thinking, he was only thinking of the temporary and the physical and the now, the horizon of this life. The fact is that there is a battle going on for your soul every single day. Your soul is being claimed by God and counterclaimed by supernatural evil. That's exactly what Paul is saying. and he's saying therefore that right now counts forever and you have to recognize that when you get up tomorrow that there is that battle. Christianity is a fight and we're not simply wrestling with flesh and blood. We're talking about eternal things. We're talking about spiritual things. We're talking about the great future and you've got to start thinking like that. You've got to start having, in a sense, it's exciting, but on the other hand, it's extremely frightening. Do you see that? You no longer can think of yourself. You no longer can think of just the simple horizon. I'm going to get up tomorrow. I'm going to make a few decisions. It's going to be a pretty boring day. You can't look at it that way. Christianity is a fight. Every day is a fight, and the battle is desperate, and the stakes are tremendously high. It's your very soul. It's who you're going to end up being. Second thing we learn here. Now, where do we get that from? We wrestle, okay? We wrestle. Christianity is a fight. It's a fight for your soul every day. Now, secondly, the second point is that we wrestle not only with flesh and blood, and the second principle is Christianity is not just a fight, but Christianity sees that the

sees that our troubles are multidimensional. Now let's get down and talk about the devil finally. You know, I skirted around him last week a little bit and talked about it. But now we're going to talk about it this week. There's going to be people here who are going to look at me and say, I cannot believe that you really believe in the devil. Can't believe that somebody with more than a second grade education, somebody that sounds at least on the surface like a sensible person, is going to get up here and preach a sermon on the devil. You're not going to tell me you believe in that. How simplistic. And what I want to say is the whole purpose of Paul's passage is to say, unless you do believe and understand in the strategies and the wiles of Satan, you're the one being simplistic. That's his whole point. When he says we wrestle not with flesh and blood, he doesn't mean that you never wrestle with flesh and blood. Flesh and blood means the human. Of course we wrestle with the human. What he means is we don't only wrestle with flesh and blood. And as long as you look at your problems, not only the problems of the world, but your own personal problems, as long as you look at them strictly in terms of flesh and blood, you're going to inevitably and continually be defeated. That's what he's saying. It's just like a general. A general. Here's a general who sends out troops and thinks there's two divisions out there of enemy troops. And so that general sends out so many divisions of enemy troops. But what if there's four divisions

Inevitably, there'll be a defeat. If the general thinks that here's the front, but actually there's two fronts, inevitably there's going to be a defeat. Now, what I'm trying to say is that we've got to stop being so simplistic about our analysis of what's going on out there. You know, everybody fights over what are we going to do about our cities? And the liberals say, well, here's what we have to do. We need better programs. We need more education. We need to give people better jobs. them better lives, and then it'll stop all the strife and all the violence. And many times the conservatives in many cases will say, no, no, that's not what it is. Instead, what you need is you need to jump to start the economy, and you need to have, you know, maybe you need more policemen out there. But what's interesting is when you stop and think about all these different arguments, at least the ones I read in the paper, they're all saying all our problems are is reduced to flesh and blood. They're basically flesh and blood. Instead of saying, there's more to it than meets the eye. You know, the thing I've been quoting this year a lot because I think it's a fair way to come at it, when Hamlet says to Horatio, there's more things in heaven and earth, Horatio, than are dreamt of in your philosophy. Until we begin to realize that both our corporate problems and our personal problems are more complex than flesh and blood, that you can't for their relentlessness. You can't account for their indelibility. You can't account for the fact that they don't go away. And as long as we treat them as only flesh and blood, they never seem to go away. We're continually defeated. Paul's saying that's because you're simplistic if you're unwilling to see that there's supernatural evil as well as human evil involved. You're being simplistic. And you're going to be defeated as surely as a general who thinks there's only two divisions out there when there's four. Now, I'll give you an example. Who's being simplistic? It wasn't that long ago that I read a sermon by a man named Richard Baxter. Richard Baxter was a Puritan minister, lived in England. He was the congregational pastor of the church in Kitterminster. And Baxter wrote a sermon around 1880, 1680, excuse me, or so, called, How Can We Cure Melancholy? Melancholy meant depression. How do you cure depression? And this is what he says. And it's, it's, to me, it's astonishing. First, he says, one of the problems, it could be a conscience problem. It could be people feel guilty. If you're violating your conscience in any way, if there's sin involved, sin can make you depressed. Guilt can make you depressed. And the only way to deal with a conscience, that part of depression, is to decide whether this is true guilt or false guilt. So you go to the Bible, see whether, are you really violating God's will? guilty because your mother told you never to do that. You know, you have to decide the difference between true and false guilt. You'll never know the difference between true and false guilt unless you're able to go to the word of God, unless you believe in revelation, you see. And he says that might be one cause for depression. On the other hand, he says there's another cause, and that is it could be the person's got physical problems. He would talk about, even in 1680, he said there can be physical distempers. They can overthrow the heart and overthrow the emotions. And what he there's all sorts of things that can go wrong. We know better than he did. There's all sorts of things that can go wrong with your brain, with your brain chemistry, with the chemistry in your body that can create depression, that need medication, and need that balance to be reinstated. But then thirdly, Baxter goes on and says, not only that. He says there may be psychological problems. He says you could have a shock, a grief shock. You could lose a loved one. And the way he puts it is, you can have such a terrible shock that the mind just sort of shuts down, because it can only take in so much at a time. And then lastly, he says, there can be a demonic approach. He says, in some cases, he's spoken to people who are finding a stream of blasphemous and violent thoughts just coming through their mind that they can't seem to stop. And they turn around and they say, I must be an awful person to think that. And he looks at them and he says, you know, a spiritual or a psychological or a physical cause for this. Therefore, I think that what you need to do is you need to realize that they're from the evil one. And that you need to realize they're really not coming out of your heart. God's forgiven you. Don't be afraid he's going to cast you off. What you need to do is resist the thoughts. And we need to pray until they go away. Now, here's what's interesting about Baxter. He says, if the depression's caused by sin, you need to repent. If the depression's caused by physical problems, you need to get your of medication. If your depression is caused because of shock, you just need gentle love and support. If your depression is caused by demonic activity, you need tremendous prayer and you need to resist the devil. And then he goes so far as to say, and actually, in most cases, depression has got more than one, maybe two, three, or four of these things all involved, and you have to find the key things and deal with it in a multidimensional way. And you know, when I read books on depression, sometimes even the Christian books, that people have a tendency to say, ah, it's physiological. Take them to a doctor. Or they say it's all psychological. All they need is support. Or some of the legalistic books say it's always sin. Just tell them to repent. Or some of the superstitious books say it's always the demons. Just cast it out. That's not the way the Bible goes. The Bible is the least simplistic. simplistic, the least simplistic diagnostic manual for your problems and for the problems of the world. Paul says we wrestle not only with flesh and blood. Until you understand that, until you get that down, you're going to be defeated. You're not going to see how many fronts on which the battle is going on. Friends, do you follow that? Do you understand that? You know, there's evil There's evil within me. You know, why am I messed up? Ah, there's evil within me because I'm dishonest with myself and I'm clinging to things that I shouldn't be clinging to and there's evil outside of me. You know, my parents may be sinned against me or my friends sinned against me or this particular group sinned against me. But then there's evil above me. There's a hierarchy of supernatural evil that just aggravates and coordinates and manages the evil within you and outside of you. Simplistic. Believing in a devil. level. If you don't, you're simplistic. And just a kind of a footnote, just a minor footnote, you know, for about 300 years, at the top level, the intelligentsia, the philosophers, the smart people, the people that write books and journals and we can't read them because they're just too hard to read, you know, there was a big shift between the Middle Ages and the so-called Modern Age. Around 1600-1700. In which the people at the top decided. That there was really no evidence for the supernatural. That the universe was a closed system. There's no evidence for the supernatural. We don't need. To believe in a supernatural. To account for anything. Anything here. That we really need to know. And therefore. If you want to believe in God. That's fine. It's a private thing. The last fifty years. There has been a shift. Going on. At those top levels. That. Is. About. As. Big. As. The. Shift. That the foundations for the old modern worldview is crumbling too. And the reason is this. Scientists now know that the origin of the universe is a boundary event. See, either something immaterial, something spiritual caused matter to start, or else, and of course that would mean, of course, that would, quote, break the rules of science. That's something from outside of nature. or else matter has always existed. And it's beginningless. But see, that goes against the rules of science too. And see, what's happening is philosophers of science are finally saying there is no way to explain the origin of the universe by looking at nature. Something happens. Something that goes beyond. It's a boundary event. And what the scientists are not saying is now we believe in God. What they're just saying is you no longer can say there's nothing outside of nature. Science can't prove that. It never could prove that. It was arrogant to say that. fact, there's a lot of things in nature that are actually impossible to explain unless there's a supernature, but that's not our job. We don't know anything about that. But what's happening is, if you ever laugh at the idea of the devil or the supernatural now by simply, if you think you can just ridicule it now saying, how simplistic and how anachronistic, nobody intelligent believes in the supernatural anymore. I'm sorry, you're going to have to think. You can't just dismiss it. You names and say, how old-fashioned. If you really don't think that there's any evidence for the supernatural, you're the one that's old-fashioned. You're going to be stuck in the 19th century when people really believed what you believe. It's not what people believe now. It doesn't mean that everybody's going around saying, oh, now we know there's God, but now we know science cannot explain everything. We wrestle not only with flesh and blood, and until you realize that, you're going to find everything is way too simplistic in your analysis of things. Okay, thirdly, we said Christianity is a fight. There's a battle going on for your soul every day, and there's forces of good and evil that are out to influence the direction your soul goes. Secondly, we said that we wrestle not only with flesh and blood, but that unless you always take into consideration the devil and supernatural evil, as well as flesh and blood, you're never really going to get on top of your problems. Thirdly, and see, we're looking to the future This is a series, remember? I don't have to answer all these things But we ought to say this The third thing is you have to understand That the devil on the one hand is mighty And yet at the same time is vulnerable He's mighty, but he's vulnerable That's what this text teaches First of all, it says we're fighting against powers and principalities The scripture actually teaches here that there's really only two principalities. There's only two kingdoms. There's the kingdom of darkness and the kingdom of light. There's only two humanities. It's a scary thing. You know the place where Jesus was arguing with the Pharisees? And he says, oh my. He says to the Pharisees, you are talking like your father, the devil, because he's the father of lies. Remember that? The Pharisees are really, really upset. He says, we're children of Abraham. No. What Jesus is saying there and what Paul is saying and what the Scripture says is there's basically only two kingdoms. In a sense, the two kingdoms are the kingdom of darkness and the kingdom of light. And in a sense, there's only two, therefore, humanities. There is the race that's under the influence of supernatural evil, and there's the race that's under the influence of supernatural good. good. That's the... If you want to understand what that is, think of it this way. The Bible tells us when the devil fell, when he rebelled against God, he said, I will ascend. I will be as the most high. I want to be first. And as a result, he fell from heaven. And Jesus says, I saw Satan fall from heaven like lightning. That's one of the... That's probably one of the best... The best evidences you have of Satan. Jesus says he exists. I saw him. I saw him go down with fire in his hair. It's really difficult to say. I like all these other things that Jesus says, but he was stupid about saying he couldn't really. I mean, you know, you really can't reject something he says and accept all these other things. Because he wanted to go up, he fell down. Look at Jesus, though. The heart of Jesus was, I will descend. Not my will, but thine be done. The Bible says he humbled himself and therefore he was exalted. And you see, the attitude of Satan was he wanted to exalt himself and therefore he came down. He went up and he fell down. Jesus went down and therefore he was raised up. Those are two different strains. Those are two different spiritual DNA matrices. They're two different chromosomes. And one or the other is working And this means that if you think you're living for yourself, you're actually falling under. If you say, I'm going to be my own God. I'm going to be my own master. I'm the only one that can decide what's right and wrong for me. I'm the only one that can decide what to live for. I'm independent. The more you decide to live for yourself, the more you become like your father because you're giving into that spiritual DNA. I will ascend. I will be as the most high. You don't know how many of the old fairy tales, how many of the great stories go along those lines. I don't even know what the name of it was, but I saw some movie that my kids were watching. It was a fairy tale movie, basically. And in it, there's this witch that comes and gives the child several wishes. And she knows that the more he uses those wishes for selfish purposes, the more he actually falls under her power. And that's the story. that the more he uses the power, the more he becomes like her. And therefore, the more he falls under her control. Or in Tolkien's Lord of the Rings. The whole idea is that there's this great ring of power. But it was created by the Dark Lord. And if the hero, any one of the heroes, decides to use that ring and use the power of that ring, supposedly for his own purposes, he'll really fall in under the power of the Dark Lord. Or, you know, in Star Wars at the very end, where Luke is so mad at Darth Vader ha, ha, ha, reach out with your anger, Luke. The more you give in to me with your anger, the more you come under my power. Why is that so often a theme in all those fairy tales and all those old stories? The more you think you're living for yourself, the more self-centered you live a life, the less you actually have control of yourself. Did you hear what Oscar Wilde said? it? He says, the more I became living for my own pleasure, it changed me until one day I realized I was no longer, remember what he said? I was no longer Lord of myself. You see, there's only two kingdoms. There's the mighty prince, the devil, and there's the mighty prince, Jesus. There's only two and only two kingdoms. All other differences between human beings are superficial. There's two part of your soul, which eventually is going to make you look, either someday, zillions of years from now, if the DNA from heaven is operating in your soul, if the Holy Spirit's come into your heart through faith in Christ, that DNA is operating. You may find yourself still a selfish person, yet there's a part of you that says,

submit, give up your rights, give your will to him, humble yourself, and you will be exalted. And, you know, every year or so, we try that, we Christians, and we find, how about that? It works. When we really give in to him, when we really die to ourself, we find ourselves. When we really lose our lives, we find our lives. Or the other DNA that can be operating in your heart, the other kingdom power, could be the kingdom of darkness, the satanic one, the other principality. And it's the one that says, I'm living for myself, Oscar Wilde said, the more I live for myself, the less I had myself. The more I tried to find myself, he doesn't quite say this, the more I lost myself. It's one or the other. And therefore, if you're living for yourself, you are under his power. He is a mighty prince. You are no match for the devil. The devil is an angelic being. The devil was here a long time before we were here. The devil's like a, you know, a divine Jack the Ripper at loose on earth. A little humility, please. You are no match for him on your own. If you think that living a selfish life is really making you independent, the Bible says you're falling in under his principality, and it won't be long before you're his pawn, and eventually you'll look just like him. The family resemblance will break out. The DNA will have its way. He is mighty, but lastly, he's vulnerable. Why? on the full armor of God, eventually you will stand. Stand means to triumph. And you say, how could that possibly be? Well, first of all, you have to, there's two things, and we'll get to this later. The Bible tells us that he's on a chain. If you're a Christian, if you're a Christian, the Bible tells us that his power over you has been broken. And we'll take a look at that later on. But in Pilgrim's Progress by John Bunyan, there's a place where Pilgrim sees demons on leashes. And they're chained, and they're on both sides of the road that he's supposed to walk down in order to get to the celestial city. And Pilgrim, of course, being a Christian, looks and says, there's no way. If I walk down that path, if I walk down that path, these guys who are on both ends of the, of the, both sides, these demons are chained up on both sides of the, of the, of the highway. I can see that their chains are very long. They're going to come rushing right into the center and they'll claw me and they'll grab me. And the advice Pilgrim gets is if you walk right, right down the center, turning not off to the right or off to the left. Watch and see what happens Well Pilgrim when he started walking down that center He got on that center line He didn't go off an inch All the demons came rushing They were actually lions They all came rushing To get him And their chains pulled them back And they reached out with their claws And sure enough Their claws on both sides Could only reach up to about Oh a half an inch from him

And so he walks down like this on both sides of him. What was John Bunyan trying to get across? He was simply trying to get this across. If you belong to the Lord Jesus Christ, you've been translated out of the kingdom of darkness into the kingdom of light. And no longer does Satan have power over you unless you go to the right or the left. How do you give him power? You know the place where it says in the scripture? It's a place where Paul says, we looked at it earlier on in Ephesians, it says, do not let the sun go down in your anger. Forgive. Don't let the devil have that kind of foothold. You know what that means? That means that if you're bitter tonight, you've stepped off the line onto the left and you could get a claw on your shoulder. Because you see, basically, demonic forces can only aggravate. They can play the piano, but you have to give them the strings. You see that? They can work on you. They can aggravate you. They can accuse you. They can deal with your conscience. We're going to talk about all the things they can do. but only if you give them a foothold if you're a Christian. Yeah. There's a place where William Girnall, who wrote a great book called The Christian in Complete Armour, he says, you know, people hear about exorcisms and people hear about demon possession and people hear stories about people's heads turn around and they turn green and they vomit into the camera. And everybody says, oh my. The devil, the devil. They hear a bump at night, William Girnall says. And they run out. The devil, the devil. You should be looking at the bitterness in your heart and you should be running away from that saying, the devil, the devil. You should be looking at the pride in your heart. There's a place in 1 Timothy where it says, don't let a rookie become an officer in the church or he will be lifted up in pride and therefore fall into the snare of the devil. You should be running, not from the devil. The devil can't harm you if you're a Christian. But what you must be doing is you need to be walking on that line and saying, the devil can't do anything to me a foothold. The bitterness, the pride, the fear, these things are the only things that give the devil the ability to camp out on my heart. The devil is mighty, but the devil is vulnerable. There's a fight. Tomorrow it starts, in some cases, because some of you may not have realized just how dire it is. Are you ready for it? Put on the full armor of God, be strong in his strength, and there's the promise, you will stand. Let's close in prayer. Father, as we receive the Lord's Supper, as we take the bread and the wine tonight, help us to see that this is a token of the victory that your son had over the great powers and principalities. But help us to see also that the reason that we are taking the bread and taking the cup tonight is to reinvigorate our commitment to following you and relying on you to get back into the center of the road so we can't be mauled over on the side. Help us to see, in some of our cases tonight, Father, we have to repent of some things. And you've promised that during the Lord's Supper you will be especially present to invigorate and help us to get back in the center of the road so that we can actually appropriate and enjoy the great triumph we have over the powers and principalities. And help us as the weeks go on for us to understand the subtleties and the nuances of this teaching. Help us actually to be invigorated by the adventure that it is to be a Christian rather than to be frightened or scared by things. Because we know, Lord, that the only thing we have to be scared of is our own hearts straying away from you. so while we return to you as we take up the cup and we take up the bread and we pray this in Jesus name Amen