The passage on which our teaching is based tonight is in your bulletin, it's printed out for you, 1 John chapter 2, verses 3 to 11, and I'll read it, 1 John 2, 3 to 11. We know that we have come to know him if we obey his commands. The man who says, I know him, but does not do what he commands is a liar, and the truth is not in him. But if anyone obeys his word, God's love is truly made complete in him. This is how we know we are in him. Whoever claims to live in him must walk as Jesus did. Dear friends, I'm not writing you a new command, but an old one, which you have had since the beginning. This old command is the message you have heard. Yet I am writing you a new command, and its truth is seen in him and you, because the darkness is passing and the true light is already shining. Anyone who claims to be in the light but hates his brother is still in the darkness. Whoever loves his brother lives in the light, and there is nothing in him to make him stumble. But whoever hates his brother is in the darkness and walks around in the darkness. know where he is going because the darkness has blinded him. And this is God's word. Now, we've been traveling through this letter of 1 John all fall, and we got two weeks ago, when we last were here, to talk about this passage, this letter. We got to verse 3, and we said we're into a new section, and it's a very important section. And what I want to do immediately is take just a couple of minutes in the beginning to show you the whole, the whole picture of what it's teaching. Then we can go back and go through it in parts and get as far as we can get tonight. But first the whole. Verse 3, we know that we have come to know him. We know that we've come to know him. This is a claim that is wonderful and at the same time it's a great test Christianity. This is a claim that it's possible to know that you belong to God. It's possible to have an inward certainty that you're his, that you're saved, put it a hundred ways, that you know that you're accepted, you know that you'll be with him if you would die, and so on. It's an internal certainty. And it's called, traditionally, the doctrine of assurance of salvation. and this is a place where we're told it's perfectly possible now it's possible to know this the bible says you can be saved quote unquote and not know it but you can't live the Christian life the way that the bible says you should be able to live it you can't live it with the power you can't live it with the joy you can't live it with the you can't live it the way it's supposed to be lived unless you have this assurance knowing that you know. Now, this is a wonderful test of whether you really understand biblical Christianity because I think some of you remember, if you were here two weeks ago, I mentioned that there's two kinds, in a place like New York, or really in this society, there's two kinds of people who violently dislike the very idea of this doctrine, who think it's arrogant and it's impossible to be sure that you're going to heaven. Now, I'm not talking about politics, right? Remember? I said on the right, you've got people. That's your right. My left. On the right, you have people who see Christianity as almost completely a matter of externals and not the objective. There's people who understand Christianity as basically doing good, going to church, following the rules, adhering to creeds. And the reason they think it's arrogant to teach that you can know that you know him is because they essentially are legalists. and therefore in legalism you are never sure that you are good enough you are never sure you have come up to specs you are never sure you are clicking you never know that you have completely done everything according to standards you can't know and they think that the very idea of saying I know of course is arrogant but that reveals that their very understanding of Christianity is defective at its base and then I said over on the other side on the left again not talking about politics on the other side who understand Christianity and religion as nothing but subjectivity. They understand religion is mainly a private thing. It's just a matter of personal peace. You might say concoct your religion and it's right for you, but it's not right for anybody else. And as a result, they also think to have this kind of certainty, to have the sense that you are right with God in a final way, they consider that arrogant too. Nobody can be sure because everybody has to, in a sense, work out their own religion in their own way. So you have people who think the very idea that you can be sure that you belong to God is arrogant and impossible. But the very... Anybody who thinks that this is impossible and arrogant, you're only proving that at the very bottom your understanding of Christianity is defective. No, John says, and the Bible's full of this, you can know that you know. How can you know that you know? And what's great about this passage and what's great about the book of 1 John, this is the book at helping you understand assurance of salvation. Because starting in verse 3, we see and following, John says that the way you can know that you really are a Christian in truth, the way you can know that you have the truth within, the way you can know that you know God, There is one internal test and three external tests. There's an internal test and an external set of tests. And the internal test, again, I told you I'm going to give you here in these first five minutes the overview of the whole. The internal test, you can see right away in verse 3, it says, we know that we know God. We know that we know Him. You cannot have this assurance of salvation have an experience, an internal experience, we'll get back to this in a minute, of knowing God. Not just knowing about God. It doesn't say we know that we're Christians in some general way. It's the only way you can get to this knowledge is if you have an internal experience of fellowship with him. That's the internal. It's got to be there. You will never come to the power. You will never come to assurance. You will never know you're a Christian unless you're knowing God. That's what it's saying. John doesn't leave it at that. And the reason John doesn't leave it at that is a person might think, you may think you have some kind of internal experience, but you've got to have ways of checking it externally. There's such a thing as self-deception. And so John comes and says, just because you think you know God, just because you're having this wonderful experience on the inside, doesn't mean you really might not be deceived. If you truly know him, there will be three external observable, evaluatable. That's the first time that word's ever been used, by the way. And so 20 years from now, when that word is just, you know, the coin of the realm, you'll know that it started here and you can say, I was there. There's three testable, evaluatable things you can observe. If you really have internal faith, if you're really knowing him, happen. And what those three things are, in verse 4 to 6, the first test is what's called the behavioral test, which means where it says, the one who says, I know him, but does not do what he commands is a liar and the truth is not in him. The behavioral test means if you really know God, your character, your behavior, the way you live will be changing. You'll be coming like, what does it say? Whoever claims to live in him must walk as Jesus did. You will be bit by bit incrementally in your actual observable behavior and character into the likeness of Christ. The second test is not the behavioral test, it's the relational test. And you have that from verse 7 to 11. And the relational test is love. Love. It's observable. And a person says, I know God, but who's harsh and crabby all the time. You're deceived. And as we're going to see later on, it's not just love in general, Christians are to love everyone, but it's love for other Christians that is especially telling as a test of whether or not you really believe and you really know in God. And then thirdly, and it's not on the passage that we've printed out for you, the third test is the doctrinal test. And you don't actually get to that until you get over into verse 18 and following. And the doctrinal test really has to do with, do you understand the gospel of salvation through Christ alone? What's so wonderful about these three external tests is on the one hand, they are ways of helping us judge our position. But on the other hand, they are a diagnostic tool. If there's anything wrong with your walk, if you're filled with doubts, if God doesn't seem real to you, if you're dry, if there's no reality, if there's all sorts of troubles, if there's just no spiritual vitality, if you're saying, what is wrong with me? What's wrong with me spiritually? Here's your diagnostic instrument. Go back down the line. Are you... Look at the behavioral test. See, these three tests are also places where our assurance is hindered. Look at the behavioral test. Are you doing things that are violating your conscience? A bad conscience will destroy your fellowship with God. Secondly, look at your relationships. Are you bitter or are you isolated? Thirdly, look at the doctrinal test. Do you really understand the gospel? You know, it's been great to go through the book of Romans with people this year, and people who have been, you know, who have gone to church for years are saying, I did not know how radical the gospel was. Do you really understand the gospel? If you don't understand the gospel doctrinally, if relationally, behaviorally, you go to these things, and you can diagnose yourself. So, in summary, this is a terrific inventory. If you take the internal test and the three external tests, all together you've got four tests. you got four areas in which you can you can do inventory and you can ask yourself questions under each of the four areas and you can do a diagnosis on where you are so for example i made a list of some questions under the first heading under the internal test you can ask yourself do you really know god right now are you knowing him do you feel his presence do you just say your prayers or do you have a sense that he's with you does his love get shed on your heart are you seek his face? Do you know what's available and possible in communing with him? That's the first set of questions. That's the internal test. The second test, are you deliberately and accountably growing in character? See, are you walking as Jesus walked? Are you changing? For example, are you making progress? Are you less irritable, less impatient, less fearful, less moody, more compassionate, more peaceful, more joyful, more true to your convictions, more self-controlled than you were last year? If you don't know, ask somebody. Ask somebody who knows you. See, behavior. Are you changing? Thirdly, are you in great relationships, especially with other Christians? Do you find friendships with Christians very satisfying, especially with Christians who are extremely different from you, people that you couldn't imagine loving unless you were both Christians? Are you staying reconciled with people? See, that's the third set of questions. Am I growing in my ability to rejoice in the gospel? When I study and think and reflect on the doctrine of justification and free adoption and grace, do I thrill under it? Can I never get enough of singing Amazing Grace? These are questions, and if under any of those four headings, you start to answer no. There's your diagnosis. That's where you have to get to work. You might be a real Christian, but because of problems that are developing in those areas, is you're not experiencing your assurance. You may be a child of God, but you're not experiencing your child-ship. You see, you're not experiencing your adoption. You're not experiencing being in the family of God. So there you are. But if you can answer yes to all those questions, to some degree or another, rejoice. You know that you know him. See? So, I mean, there's no more practical down-to-earth book anywhere on this whole subject. here's how you can tell whether you're a Christian or not. Here's how you can tell where you're weak as a Christian. Here's how you can tell. Now, having done that, now, see, I did the elevator, I mean, the helicopter ride over everything, brought you up high to see the whole. Now let's begin and look at each of the tests. We'll start with the internal and then go through the external ones, you know, to the degree we have time. Now, the internal test, you can know that you know him. him. I don't want to completely go over the same ground that we did, you know, earlier in the fall, but I have to at least remind you of what it means when this little word comes up, knowing God. You know, anybody who ever read, Americans who read the King James Bible, if you ever read much of Genesis, you're always a little shocked at the way the word know was used in the early chapters, right? It was always a little bit confusing because it would say, you know, Adam went into Eve and he knew her and she conceived and bore a son. And you said, what? And then it would say, you know, Seth's wife went in, Seth went in under Seth's wife and he knew her and she conceived and bore a daughter and so on and on it goes. And you say, what is that? You see, the Hebrew word for know was used to mean sex inside a covenant of marriage. There was another word, there is another Hebrew word for just having sex. But the word know in the Bible means complete oneness. Not just intellectual oneness, not just legal oneness, personal oneness, absolute oneness. And so when it talks about knowing God, it says you can have assurance of your salvation if you God. First of all, obviously that goes beyond the intellectual. One of the most frightening verses in the whole Bible is that place in Matthew 7 where Jesus says, on the last day, many will come to me and they will say, Lord, Lord, didn't we do marvelous deeds in your name? Didn't we prophesy in your name? Didn't we cast out demons and heal people in your name? You know, these are busy people. These are people who believe in the right doctrine and they're in the church, and they're doing a lot of things for God, you see. And Jesus says, I will say to them, I never knew you. He's going to say to people who intellectually understood Christianity very well, I never knew you. I never had a personal relationship with you. See, knowing God goes way beyond the intellectual. Knowing God even goes beyond the legal. We've been talking, the last few weeks, we were talking about the fact that Christianity, first of all, primarily, is a legal position. position. Jesus is our advocate, which means that when we become Christians, we unite with him legally so that everything that's true of him is true of us. We are as free from the guilt of sin as if we had died on the cross and been tortured and been punished for our sins and had paid for our sins because in him we have. Now, we went through all that, but this goes beyond that. Knowing goes beyond the legal. It doesn't just say, Adam signed a marriage contract with Eve. Adam became legally one with Eve and lo, she conceived a son. No, it doesn't work that way. The oneness has to go beyond the legal and the intellectual if it's going to be real knowing. Knowing God means a personal interaction. action. Yeah, let's be biblical. Let's get real close. The Bible uses these metaphors. Let's be biblical. It means a penetration. It means an entering into one another. Now, you know, at the personal level, you may have somebody who you've been working with for a long time, let's say, a colleague. And one day this colleague brings you alongside and says, I need to talk to you about something and you go out to eat and this person, you might say, really opens the heart and talks about problems and you open the heart. When that's all done, you may have sort of been with them for five years, but after that experience, you say, I really know that person now. I thought I knew them, but I don't. There was a deep connection. There was a deep personal interaction and exchange. The Bible says nothing less than that is possible for a Christian and God. Knowing God, God, having a sense he's speaking to you. When you read the Bible, having a sense that this is not just words, but it's words to me. Not just knowing God loves me in general, but a sense that the love is coming at me, a sense of it, you know, it might say, breaking on my heart the way waves break on rocks on the shore. Real fellowship. Now, this, the Bible says, has to happen be sure, if you're going to have this assurance of salvation. And there's this, you know, one of the questions that immediately comes up is, how do you experience that? Now, once I tell you, it's subject to degrees. Sometimes it's gentle, your sense is love on you. Sometimes it's heavy. Sometimes it can be kind of epical. It can be actually a kind of once-in-a-lifetime experience that you never forget and changes your way of looking at life forever. But how does it come? The Bible talks about the fact that you can know God and the knowing God is what actually makes you sure that you belong to him. In Hebrews chapter 11, I've referred to this before, in verse 2, we're told about all those ancient saints, you know, Abraham and Moses and Abel and Enoch and everybody. It says, quote, God gave this testimony to each that they pleased God. Now, when you know God, when you break through the intellectual, when you break through the legal, and you actually sense that penetration, you actually sense your heart touching his heart, the essence of that experience is to know he's pleased with you. Now, do you see how that happens? That will happen only if you're walking in the light. Over the last several months, I've been reading over and over and over again this place in 1 John, and it talks again and again about walking in the light. What does it mean to walk in the light? As soon as you identify walking in the light with one of the tests, you realize it's more than that. It says if you're walking in the light, you'll obey him. And that means walking in the light is more than obeying him. It's a way of proving you're walking in the light, but it's not all there is. Obeying him does not exhaust the meaning of walking in the light. It says if you're not loving other people, you're not walking in the light. Okay? Yes, but loving people is not the grand sum total of what it means to walk in the light. Walking in the light, I'm coming to see, means not just that you have a little change in the heart, but you enter in a whole new realm. The Bible says we're translated out of the kingdom of darkness into the kingdom of his dear son. To walk in the light means, I believe, is to take the gospel and to look at everything through the gospel and to live continually out of the gospel and to see the world through the gospel and to never approach God without the gospel and never look at your depression or your bitterness your anxiety or any of your problems with the gospel or any of your relationships without the gospel. Walking in the light means walking in line with the gospel. Remember where Paul says to Peter back in Galatians 2, you are not in line with the gospel. You haven't in line with the gospel. Such a great idea. Paul says to Peter, Peter, the reason you are showing racial prejudice in your behavior, and you can go back to Galatians 2 to understand that, is because you haven't drawn a line from the gospel out into this area of your life. Now, I believe walking in the light and drawing lines out of the gospel into your life is the same thing. How do you handle, for example, everything through the gospel? Everything. Let's just say, let's start with you're resentful. You see why walking the light comes out and actually undergirds, understanding the gospel it says, if you are not loving your brethren, if you're hating your brother, if you've got a grudge against somebody, if you want to see somebody hurt, you're not walking in the light, it says. You see what it says there? It says, whoever claims to be in the light and hates his brother is still in the darkness. Whoever loves his brother lives in the light and there's nothing to make him stumble. Whoever hates his brother is in the darkness and walks around in the darkness. What does that mean? I'll show you. You cannot keep a grudge without at the moment you're having the grudge forgetting the gospel. What's the gospel? You're a sinner saved by grace. God loved you so much that though he was powerful, he became powerless. Though he was invulnerable, he became vulnerable. Though he was in glory, he came into bone-crushing darkness. Though he was whole, he was ripped to pieces. Do you believe that? At the moment that you're hating somebody, you have forgotten it. You're not walking in the light. But when you remember, away goes the anger. Away goes the resentment. Okay, let's take another example. Let's just say you're hating yourself because you failed at something. Something you thought you should have done and you didn't do it. And you can't stop hating yourself. You know what you need to do? You need to repent. But repent in the Gospel. be the failure was wrong, but look at the real problem underneath. You have to say, you know why I'm ready to kill myself and throw myself off the bridge? I'm forgetting the Gospel. I have made this thing, this area where I have been failing, so important. I think that this is really where my worthiness is, but it isn't. Jesus is my worthiness. You will stop hating yourself when you repent through the Gospel of letting this area be too important to you, letting it be a kind of pseudo-salvation, letting it be a kind of replacement for Jesus, you will begin, maybe not to immediately laugh giddily, but you will get over your discouragement, you will get over that self-hatred, you will get over that deep despair when you start to draw a line from the gospel into your life and repent for the real sin underneath the sin. Not so much for the failure, but for the failure to let your sins discourage you when you're righteous in Jesus Christ. If you're walking in the light you will be obedient. When somebody look it says here if the man who says I know him but does not do what he commands is a liar and the truth is not in him. Down below it says when a person fails to love darkness is in you. same thing. You have forgotten the truth when you lie. You've forgotten the truth when you're impatient. You've forgotten the truth when you're scared. You've forgotten the truth when you're worried. You've forgotten the truth when you're not living like Jesus, with the courage of Jesus, with the compassion of Jesus, with the flexibility of Jesus, with the convictions of Jesus, with the self-control of Jesus. Don't you see? You've forgotten the truth about the gospel. You're you're not in the light. You've gotten out of the light. Now, if you walk in the light, if you continually remind yourself of the gospel and you rejoice in it when you pray, and you continually remind yourself of the gospel when you relate to people out in life, and you continually remind yourself of the gospel when you're trying to deal with your problems, if you walk in the light, there will be, eventually, a testimony from God you please him. I mean to say that if you're praying and you're rejoicing in the gospel and if you're seeking to do everything in light of the gospel, sometimes it'll be light, sometimes it'll be heavy, sometimes it'll come on you and you will sense he loves you, he accepts you. You really are accepted in him. You will feel his presence. Sometimes it'll be very light and you'll just sort of put your head down in your hands and just thank him for the amazing truth that you please him. Other times it can come in with such power

this will happen if you walk in the light. Sometimes to a small degree, sometimes to a large degree, sometimes it will come every morning for a while, sometimes it won't happen for a good while. He's got his reasons, but he will give it to you. The testimony that you belong to him. And if that happens, and when that happens, and to the degree that happens, what a person you'll be. Let all hell break loose. You've got God. He's got you. You please him. before Jesus Christ went out into his ministry, down comes the heavenly dove in a voice that says, this is my beloved son in whom I'm well pleased. That's it. The testimony, the assurance. Stephen is being stoned. He looks to heaven and he realizes Jesus Christ is his righteousness at the right hand of God. That though the people down there are condemning him, Jesus loves him and he is perfectly righteous in God and therefore he handled his execution. No problem. He forgave them. don't you see? He got the testimony. It comes from walking in the light. It comes from drawing the line from the gospel out into your life. And if you walk in the light all these tests all these evidences you will know him. You'll experience him. You'll change in your character. You'll love the brethren. Let me just close by saying you can go back into any century let me just, listen here's a guy named Richard Sibbes 16th century, no, early 17th century. He says, sometimes our spirits cannot stand in trials. Therefore, sometimes the immediate testimony of the spirit is necessary. It comes in saying, I am thy salvation. And our hearts are stirred up and comforted with joy inexpressible. This joy hath degrees. Sometimes it's so clear and strong that we question nothing. Other times, doubts come in soon. Okay, let's go 100 years later, a guy named William Guthrie. talking about the same thing. When you walk in the light, eventually God will tell you. He will come near to you. He will let you know immediately and intuitively that he's pleased with you. William Guthrie says, when it comes, it's no audible voice, but it's like a ray of glory filling the soul with God as life, love, and liberty. It's like the word to Daniel that came in saying, oh man, greatly beloved. Or it's like the word that Jesus said to Mary. The Lord only

Mary and filled her soul so she no longer doubted that she was his. Oh, how glorious is this manifestation of the Spirit. I'm going to give you one more. A hundred years later, a guy named Christmas Evans, he was a Welsh Baptist preacher in the 19th century, and he'd gone for several years with hardness of heart. He hadn't been walking in the light. He began to walk in the light, and he says, I had been in a dry and arid state of soul for some years, but one day as I was traveling between churches. I felt it incumbent upon me to pray, however hard I felt my heart. And soon I felt my chains loosen and my old hardness of heart falling away. I got in my soul a confidence of the promise of the spirit of love. Tears flowed and I cried out for the gracious visits of God. I felt mountains of snow and ice melting. This tells you that it's available for every Christian. Seek his face. He will let you know that the great God of the universe is pleased with you. Remind yourself of the gospel. Screw it down into your heart until it catches fire. Look at everything in life. Look at every single problem. Say to yourself, my problem comes because I'm forgetting the gospel of grace. Look at everything. Draw lines from the gospel into every part of your life. And he will come in and say, this is my beloved child with whom I am well pleased. He'll do it. And the pleasure of giving God pleasure is the greatest pleasure that any human heart can bear. And you'll find that out. Let's pray. Thank you, Father, for making this possible. You didn't have to give us this. You didn't have to give us this at all. you could have just said after what I've done for you just come to church just obey the ten commandments and I'll see you at judgment day but you didn't you said come and listen to my word and seek my face and I'll see you every day thank you that you're God who meets us and deals with us face to face we pray that everybody here no matter where they are spiritually

know this great knowledge that someday everybody in this room might know you and know that they know you. We ask for it in Jesus' name. Amen.