The Gospel according to St. John. We're turning to the second chapter, and there I'm reading from verses 1 through 11. John, chapter 2, and I'll read verses 1 through 11. On the third day a wedding took place in Cana in Galilee. Jesus' mother was there, and Jesus and his disciples had also been invited to the wedding. And when the wine was gone, Jesus' mother said to him, They have no more wine. Dear woman, why do you involve me? Jesus replied, My time has not yet come. His mother said to the servants, Do whatever he tells you. Nearby stood six stone water jars, the kind used by the Jews for ceremonial washing, to 30 gallons. Jesus said to the servants, Fill the jars with water. So they filled them to the brim. Then he told them, Now draw some out and take it to the master of the banquet. They did so, and the master of the banquet tasted the water that had been turned into wine. He did not realize where it had come from, though the servants who had drawn the water knew. Then he called the bridegroom aside and said, Everyone brings out the choice wine first and the cheaper wine after the guests have had too much to drink. But you have saved the best till now. This, the first of his miraculous signs, Jesus performed in Cana of Galilee. He thus revealed his glory, and his disciples put their faith in him. This is God's Word. There's a great song that I've known for many, many years. It goes, the bear went over the mountain, the bear went over the mountain, the bear went over the mountain. To see what he could see. And all that he could see. other side of the mountain, the other side of the mountain, the other side of the mountain was all that he could see. Now, that summarizes a lot of the Bible. Essentially, that's what the Bible says is the characteristic of life without God. You see, we spend the early part of our life preparing for the great climb. You can think of life as a great climb. told that if we can get to the peak, life will have meaning. And we all have different peaks, you might say. But with great energy and with a tremendous amount of anticipation, we prepare ourselves for the top. And most of us don't get there. And along the way, we find ourselves not only tiring out, but in many cases, we've slipped, we've fallen, we're laying down with broken bones, cracked and bleeding, and we're angry. And we're saying, I thought at this time in my life I'd be where I was trying to go. In terms of career, in terms of love, in terms of relationship status, I thought for sure I'd be further along than I am now, and look at where I am. I'm nowhere, it doesn't seem. So you begin to say, why has life been so unfair? Why has God been so unfair to me? Why has he kept me down? Well, you see, there's these people at the top, sometimes as we're sitting there laying, bleeding on the pathway, we see a few people that have made the top of the say, boy, that must be it. That must be the great scene. What do you see when you get to the top? A great new land or just the same old grind on the other side of it? You know, when Eugene O'Neill, who got to the top of his particular mountain, the theater, when he got up there, what did he see? He said, I'm fed to the teeth with the damn theater. The game isn't worth the candle. If I got real spiritual satisfaction out of success in the theater, I might compensate, but it doesn't. Success is flat, spiritually speaking. It's as flat as failure. After the unprecedented critical acclaim, the morning becomes a lecture. I was in bed nearly a week, overcome by the profoundest gloom and deepest exhaustion. What did he see up there? You get to the top of the mountain, success doesn't deliver. The party runs out. and you see you have a great contrast between that and John chapter 16 where Jesus says and you will see me and when you see me you will rejoice and when you rejoice no man will take your joy from you Jesus talks about this that the human soul is built for something greater than even world-class achievement and acclaim and honor and applause laws. How many of us can get to the peak that a Eugene O'Neill got to? Very few of us. And Jesus says, but you're built for something far greater than that. You're built for festival joy, because I am Lord of the Feast, and I'm the only one that can do it. And, you know, of all the arguments, when I was struggling with whether Christianity was true or not, something like 20 years ago at this point. When I was wrestling and struggling with that. Of all the arguments that I read, the one that I appreciated the most. And the one that probably touched me the most. And the one that still touches me the most. Is the argument from Joy. Not the cosmological argument. That talks about well, there must be a uncaused cause. An unmoved mover. Not the teleological argument. Where did all this design come from. Could an explosion a paint factory paint a Mona Lisa how much less could an accident have created all this design. You see, that's a teleological argument. There's the ontological argument. And there's all these arguments. But the argument from joy is the one that got to me. I hope it gets to you. And it continually gets to me. I hope it continually gets to you. First of all, this passage teaches us that there's a joy shortage. Now, when Jesus came to this wedding feast, he was not coming just to a, you know, a typical interception. You know, this is not going downstairs into the church basement for tea and cakes. Wedding feasts then were big things. It was the biggest day in the life of a person in this part of the world in this time. And it was not just a sedate little party. It was a regional festival. When I say regional, I meant the entire region. It was the kind of thing that happened once or twice a year at the most. And therefore, what these people were facing was a the joy of the feast. There's rabbinical statements about that. The wine was the joy of the feast. You didn't have the wine there. If it wasn't good wine, the feast wasn't a feast. There's a rabbinical saying that says, where there is no wine, there is no joy. And we're talking about the feast and the wedding feast. And so realizing that this is the big day of their lives, and this is one of the big days for the entire region of the year, you realize what kind of disaster was facing them. Nobody knows why they ran out of wine. Somebody made a mistake. Somebody did some kind of miscalculation. And therefore, it's perfectly natural for Mary to come to Jesus and to say, have you heard? They're running out of wine. What are we going to do? What are they going to do? It's just a natural thing for Mary to do. Jesus, however, turns around and makes one of the more cryptic statements that he's ever made, and he makes a lot of cryptic statements. You know, the translation prettifies this and says, dear woman, my time has not yet come. Now, many of you know that the actual translation is, he says, lady, woman. And then he says, my hour has not yet arrived. In the book of John, Jesus' hour, the word hour, is a reference to his death. In John 12 and John 13 and John 17, he talks about his time or his hour as the moment And so I want you to see what is actually happening. There's something very, very strange, abrupt, and startling about Jesus' statement. Mary walks up and says, you know what? You're running out of wine. This is going to be terrible. And Jesus turns and says, woman, I'm not ready to die yet. What? And he even goes so far as to say, what have you to do with me? He says, woman, why are you bothering me? Don't you see I'm not ready to die? And so Mary, obviously used to this sort of thing by now,

turns to all of the servants and says, don't let this throw you. Do whatever he says. Now, what do we make of this strange statement? There's only one explanation. Jesus is clearly, like a lot of us very often get, you know, lost in thought. Absolutely lost in thought. He is deeply stirred in the profoundest depths because he sees what's happened, and even his mother's request as a metaphor for his entire career. He sees the devastation that's about to happen. He sees the humiliation is coming and he sees, yes, the party hasn't delivered. The wine runs out. The mountain never takes us anywhere. And he's the one that has to pick up the pieces. And he knows what it will cost him to pick up the pieces. In other words, what's happening to the bridegroom and the disaster that's overtaking the bridal couple, the disaster master of the party, he begins to recognize as being just a metaphor for the very reason that he came, and he has to deal with it. You see, joy, which is what the wine represents, the joy always runs out on any party we throw. It's what's ironic is, for us modern people, joy is more important than it's ever been, ever been, and yet it's scarcer as a result than it's ever been. When my recently watched the movie Glory, and we love the movie Glory, but it still amazed us. It's a historic film and based on real letters, you know, from a young soldier, a young officer to his father. We suddenly realized how far away our entire society has gone from these people. Now, here you have a bunch of men in the Civil War walking up a hill knowing they'll all be killed. They just walk up, you know. The black soldiers did it for the honor of their people. The white honor of his principles and for the truth of his principles. We don't know anything about that because the most important thing for us is not sacrifice for honor, but joy. That's the thing we're after. We would never do something like that. We can't imagine doing something like that. We think it's great, you see, to watch it on movie. It's great that person was believed in freedom for slaves. It's great that these black soldiers could go up. But it's great, and we think it's wonderful, but do you think we would do that? Would we die for such a thing? No. Joy is the thing today. That's the most important thing. I saw recently in a newspaper an interesting little personal interest story about a woman whose husband had become sick or been injured, and he was put in a wheelchair. He was confined to a wheelchair for the rest of his life. And after a couple of years, she left him for another man. And he thereafter committed suicide, husband in the wheelchair. And a couple years later, somebody came by for some reason and was talking to the wife about this. And she says, are you trying to make me feel guilty? I refuse. I don't feel guilty. I had my chance. I had to take it. Everyone has a right to happiness. See, joy is the sumum bonum. It's the new highest good. It's the thing we live for. It's never been scarcer. People who understand have lived life a little bit. If you're an adolescent, you don't understand this yet. If you're a spiritual adolescent. But if you've lived life for a while, you'll know this. That every one of us wants something severely. A kind of satisfaction. A kind of joy. We want something severely that cannot be had in this life. It cannot be had in this world. When you first fall in love. When you first get married. When you first enter your professional field, your chosen field. When you first taste a little professional success. When you first find that little getaway. When you first think about the possibility of finding a summer place. When you first start these new things. You feel like this is going to be it. It never delivers. It never. The desires. The feelings. Fade. Even as you grasp these things. You begin to realize you haven't got it. And once you decide you haven't got it, there's only four things that you can do. And everybody in this room, unless you're a spiritual adolescent. You're the people still going up a mountain. You're sure that when you get to the top of a mountain, everything's going to be great. But the rest of us. No. We haven't got it. And there's only four ways you can respond to that. You can either blame the things themselves. Or you can blame yourself. self. Or you can blame the universe. Or you can do something radically different. See, some people blame the things. The reason I'm not happy is I need a new spouse. I need a new mate. I need a new scenery. I need a new psychiatrist. I need a new job. I need a new career. And a lot of people just spend all their time just doing revolving psychiatrists, revolving careers, revolving mates, revolving partners, revolving businesses. So you blame things. Couldn't be me. Couldn't be anything in me. A lot of the most successful people in the life are like that. Bored, discontented, and always moving. And they'll use you for a while, and then they only go. Or secondly, you might blame, not things, but you might blame yourself. A lot of us are in that boat, right? Ah, the reason we haven't got it is because we've made bad choices. We haven't lived up to standards. We just, you know, we haven't quite been able to come through. And what are we going to do about it? This is real smart, all right? We're going to try harder. And people like this spend their life full of self-doubt, and that gets into self-distaste and self-disgust. Blame yourself. Thirdly, some people, when they realize they don't have it, they just start to blame the universe. Now, this is a fairly do. But it's a terrible price. You see what I mean. These are people who say, yes, when I was young, I was idealistic. Yes. I used to think this and that. But now I've grown up and I realize I've stopped howling after the moon. And what you've done is you've killed the part of yourself that really wanted that satisfaction. And you've killed the part of yourself that really made you truly human. Then there's a one other way you can do it. You can blame the things. You can blame yourself. You can blame the universe. Or you can do something radically different. And it's a Christian way to go. You can blame your separation from God. Now, there's something different. That's not blaming yourself. That's not blaming the universe. That's not blaming the things. Even though all those things take part. Blame your separation from God. And recognize, I need to establish a relationship with Him. Now, you see, the great argument of joy a radio talk that C.S. Lewis gave over the BBC in the 1940s. And in that radio talk, he says this. Creatures are not born with desires unless satisfaction for those desires exists. A baby feels hunger? There's such a thing as food. A duckling wants to swim? There's such a thing as water. Men feel sexual desire? There's such a thing as sex. And if I find myself, if I find within myself a desire which no experience in the world can satisfy, the only probable explanation is that I was made for something in another world. If none of my earthly pleasures satisfy this desire, that doesn't mean the universe is a fraud or that you have failed or that the things have failed. Probably the earthly pleasures were never meant to satisfy it, but only to arouse it to suggest the real thing. There's a joy shortage. Jesus Christ is the supply of that joy shortage. Now, the point there, when Jesus Christ decides to make the wine, he is saying, yes, there's a joy shortage, but I am the solution for it. Keep this in mind. People for years have said Christianity is anti-joy. A lot of people's idea of Christianity is this. They say Christianity's job is to wrap us up like mummies so that we're so uptight and so guilt-ridden so that we can't really swing. And the main job of most people in our society is to get free from the guilt-inducing, the influence of Christianity

basically say this. You want to be a Christian? Okay. Keep your nose clean, keep out of trouble, come to church, pass out a few bulletins. It's not a very interesting life, but that's the price you pay if you want your soul to be saved from eternal damnation. I mean, what do you want? Are Christians people that spend all of their lives constantly looking at others and saying, I don't find that funny. Is that what a Christian is? Every day, in a bus, on the subway. When Jesus Christ decided to make his debut, when Jesus Christ did his first miraculous sign, the first part of his public ministry, what did he choose to do? Now listen, don't you know this, that if you are going to make your first public statement, you're going to do your first show, your first recital, your first foray into the public arena. What are you going to do? You're going to try to make sure that people see who you really are and what you're really about and what you really can do. You want people to see the essential, not the incidental. And therefore, Jesus chose something, obviously, that would give us the essence of what he's about. So what did he do? What did he decide to do? Did he decide to heal the sick? Was that his first deed? first way in which he showed his glory to raise the dead? Was the first way he decided to show his glory that he fed 5,000 starving people? Well, all those things seem logical and that would show us who he really is. No. What was his first miracle? The way in which he chose to show us and introduce himself to the world. He created 100 gallons of unusually good wine for a party. And that was the first way in which he decided to do his miracle. If anybody out there is scratching their head and saying, that's kind of strange, that's odd, why would he do such a thing? That shows that you don't know fundamentally what he's about. Jesus Christ says, I am Lord of the feast. Do you want to know what I'm really about? Do you want to know what the essence is what I am doing, of what I am, and what I've come to do. Do you want to know what the essential Jesus Christ is? I'm Lord of the Feast. I come to bring festival joy. And listen, wherever my feet pass, the desert blooms. Wherever I turn my face, the trees laugh and sing for joy. Wherever I go, there must be always, inevitably, infallibly, inescapably, inexorably, there has to be joy. There must be. That's the essence of what I'm about. If you don't understand that,

if you think Christianity is some kind of bargain, where what you have to do is you have to come on in and just feel a kind of a pinch. You just have to give up all kinds of great things and you just have to live a kind of pinched, narrow life, just so eventually someday in the pie, there's pie in the sky by and by, and we'll start to slice it later on. But meanwhile, this is something that we have to go through now. If you think that's what Christianity is about, if you think that's what I'm about, you don't understand me at all. I'm Lord of the Feast. And not only that, Jesus Christ could not help but at this time think about that great day that the Bible talks about again and again in the Scripture, the wedding feast of the Lamb. The last day, what do you think it's going to be? When you have a picture of the end of time, what do you think of? I'll tell you what the Bible thinks of. The marriage supper of the Lamb, a feast to end all feasts. The Bible tells us that on the last day, we're all going to be part into that feast, and it'll be our feast, and we will feel at that feast the way a bride felt at this feast. You see, think about the essence of that image. What an incredible image. Yes, I know it's only an image. I know the reality than the image, but the image is incredible. We're supposed to be thinking about what the perfect wedding day would be like for a bride. And think about what the woman is feeling here. The woman is saying, I am understood and loved and accepted by the one person in the entire world that I admire, respect, and love the most. And today, that person incredibly is binding himself to me so that everything he has and everything he is becomes mine and comes into me. And on top of that, all of my best friends and all the people I love the most are coming here and watching this happen, and their cup is being filled up by my blessedness. What a day this is! and the Bible tells us that is just a hint of what that festival joy will be on that day when we all come into the wedding supper of the Lamb. Now look, listen, there's people here probably, the majority of us have never experienced that. Some of you have been brides but you've been divorced and to a great degree the brightness of that memory has ever been besmirched by the a divorce. Some of you have never been brides, you see. Lots of us have never been brides. So we're talking about a minority of people. But look at, listen, if there's anybody in this room that says yes, I wish you wouldn't have talked about that. This is something that I would love to have. If I only had a great, happy, wonderful marriage, you know, my life would be different. Don't you see what you're doing? Here you are sitting down bleeding and broken at the bottom of this peak. And you'll see people at the top with happy marriages. And you say, if only I had that. Then my life would be happy. Friends, the people up there. The people with good marriages. And I'm one of them. Can tell you. It will not deliver. It will not be enough. You'll start to blame the marriage. Because it doesn't come through at the level. At which. It doesn't come through. As deep. As your soul. As deep. Doesn't do that. Instead, what Jesus Christ says is the only way that you will ever find who you really are is if you come to me and unite with me by faith. And when that happens, there will be a day coming, and you know this, in which you will enter into a feast that will last forever. The feast is so great that the best wedding feasts in the history of the world are just dim outlines of it. That will be yours. That is the thing that Jesus Christ says is available through Him. I'm Lord of the feast. And the reason that Jesus is acting so strangely and acting so sad and so abrupt is He knows that the only way that this is ever going to come to us is through His hour. The reason that He feels the way He feels, the reason He's acting the way He's acting is this. Here's Jesus sitting in the middle of all these people, and all these people are laughing and singing at the top of their lungs and sipping the sweet cup of joy. And Jesus Christ knows the only possible way that he can actually bring the whole world into this condition is through his hour. The only way that they can sip, that we can sip this great cup of joy, will be if he takes down and drinks to the bottom the poisonous cup, the cup of God's wrath, the acid cup. And he is sitting there, you see, here's the irony of it. He's sitting there as they're all sipping the joy, he's sipping the sorrow. And here's something that we know that he knew, but nobody else there understood, even Mary. And that is the only way that we who believe can enter that joy will be through his sorrow. He knew it. And that's the reason why he made sure that the wine was created in those purification jars to say, the only way you'll ever have the great wine of the great feast is if my blood is shed for purification of all. His blood and wine are the same thing. He loved to talk about his blood as wine because, you see, wine has a medicinal value. You put it on the wounds and it got rid of the infection. And yet at the same time, wine also brought incredible joy. And Jesus says, unless you have finally understood what that is, unless you're willing not to see me as an abstraction, not to see me just as somebody who you're supposed to emulate morally, but unless you see that my blood has got to be the thing you trust in, my blood is the thing that has to cleanse you, you'll never know this joy. My friends, don't you see that? The only way that we can enter that joy is through his sorrow, Now, finally, how do we receive this exactly? Dear friends, you have got to see that there is a process by which we have got to. We can learn his joy and we can receive his joy if we do what Mary did. You know what Mary did? She did everything he told her to do. Remember what she said? says? After she gets rebuffed, and he talks to her in very, very confused ways, what does she do? Does she say, well, forget it then. I mean, I just asked a simple question. Instead, she turns to the servants, and she says, do whatever he says. You know why? She says, it doesn't matter that we can't understand him. We can't understand him not because he's crazy, but because we're crazy. so dark and confused, but he's all light. We're dark and confused. If we're going to get help anywhere, it's from him. If he is delayed, his answer, it's a gracious delay. There's a lot of you probably right now in this boat, don't you think? You say, hey, I think I've come to Jesus as Lord of the feast. I think I've come to him, but I've asked for things and they're not coming. There are things that I feel like I really need and they're delayed. There's things I've asked God for, and almost everything I seem to hear from God almost is gobbledygook. It just doesn't make sense. What are you doing about it? Are you doing what you just laughed about Mary doing? I said, was she going to turn around and go, huh, well, if that's how you're going to be, I'm your mother. You're my son. I deserve a little bit of courtesy here. Who do you think you are? You know, you can laugh at all that, but isn't that what a lot of you're now? Do you know yourselves? Or do you say, if you delay, oh Lord, it's a gracious delay. If I don't understand what you're saying, it's not my fault. It's not your fault. It's my fault. Where else can I go? You have the words of eternal life. Where else can I go? Every other kind of joy, every other kind of wine I've ever sipped, I realize is incomparably inferior to what you have for me and I stay with you. I will do whatever you say." See all that Mary did was, Mary said, I don't understand him, I don't know what he's talking about, he's delaying, do whatever he says. Stick with him, he's our only hope. And that is what this text is saying to you too. What does it mean to stick with him? It means first of all to recognize that every other kind of wine you're sipping right now will give out. Don't you see that the other things that you're running after are not going to satisfy you? Do you see that? Don't you see, for example, just as an example, that this tremendous need for intimacy and closure

is something that can't be satisfied by all the sex in the world and by all the marriages in the world. Take it from the people who've been trying to meet that need for intimacy and closure that way. It doesn't work. Intimacy and closure will only be met by something beyond the world. And that'll completely change the way in which you go about looking for a mate, by the way. If you go out looking for a mate saying, I've got to find the perfect one because if I find the perfect one, I'll reach the top of the mountain and then I'll be happy. No. You say, I'm going to find the best possible person. But somebody who also knows that they can't get that deep need for intimacy and closure met through me. And I can't get it met through them. I want somebody who simply will be with me in my quest to find the joy beyond the ends of the world. It's out beyond where the world ends. It's out there. And until you recognize that, you'll crush and kill anything else that you try to make your life. And there's.listen, some of you.one last thing. Some of you, if you come to the Lord of the Feast, you're gonna have to give up some things. Because you see, there's a lot of things that you're relying on that are good in themselves. romantic love. You're trying to turn it into the wine when it's not the wine. Jesus is the wine. And all you have to do is see, hey, this isn't it. And you'll find that instead of crushing, you'll find you can enjoy romantic love when you finally stop making it into your very life. There's other things, however, that are your joy and are your relief that you will have to give up. But if you do it, it'll still, in a very odd and strange way, become a great part of your life. that fanciful story about a busload of people from hell who get to the outskirts of heaven and the people from heaven come down to try to get the people from hell to receive Christ and come into heaven. And that's the way the story goes. And there's one man on the bus from hell who's got a little rat on his shoulder. And the little rat represents some kind of sin. And the little rat is talking to him and saying, You better not go to heaven because they won't let me come with you me. You can't live without me. And so at one point, one of the bright people from heaven walks on down and says, hey, take my hand and let's go to heaven. Let's go to him. And the person from hell says, well, I'm sorry. My little friend here couldn't go with me. He won't go with me, and I couldn't possibly go without him. I just couldn't do it. And the bright person from heaven says, let me kill it. Oh, no, no. You don't understand. That would hurt too much. It would be too difficult. I me kill it. And finally, he convinces the person from hell, all right, okay, he says, I don't have the strength, go ahead and do it. The bright person from heaven grabs the little rat, kills it, throws it to the ground, and its dead body transforms itself into a big, huge, beautiful horse with great wings, and they ride on the horse to heaven together. And as they're riding, the voice of God comes down from heaven and says this, and for years I never understood it, the strengths that once opposed your will shall be obedient fire in your blood and heavenly thunder in your voice. I could never figure that out. One day I talked to a friend of mine who had come to Christ and he had struggled with homosexuality for a much big part of his life. He told me exactly what that meant. He told me exactly what it meant. He loved that passage. He said, when I first considered coming to Christ, I realized I had to give up homosexual contacts. And I said, I can't do that. I need that. I've got to have that. It's my joy. But he did come to Christ. And in the process, gradually, he was healed of that. And he said this to me. He says, when I did finally come in, I discovered that when the struggle was finally over, it had left me, A, far more disciplined than I would have been before, B, far more aware of my own insides, C, far more skillful at helping other people that hurt, D, far more aware of my own weakness, and E, far more confident that God can love and change anyone. And he said this, when he reads that passage in The Great Divorce, he says, The old sin, when I gave it up, became obedient fire in my blood. It became heavenly thunder in my voice. My friend, my friends, there is nothing, there is nothing that you can give him that he won't actually in some way give back to you as part of the wedding feast that is the only place that you can actually find festival joy. He's Lord of the feast. He built your joy censors. This is the feast that you've been searching for in all the feasts. This is the wine that you've been searching for in all the wines. Don't let anything come between you and it. Do whatever he says. Obey him completely. Trust in him fully. Stick with him. There's no other place to go. Isaiah 25. Hey, you New Yorkers ought to know that virtually everything else, you've tried everything. And you know what? The best wine has been saved to last in your life. if you listen to this invitation. And in that day, the Lord of hosts will make for his people a feast of the finest meats and wine well refined. And on this mountain, he will swallow up death forever. And the Lord God will wipe away tears from all faces and the reproach of his people. He will take away forever. The Lord God has spoken. Come to the feast. Let's pray. Our Father, as we pray now,

And as we also, during the time of the offering, we look our life over and we recognize those things in our lives that we still tend to go to those other tables that keep us from enjoying your gospel feast. For some of us, we need to come to your Son, the Lord of the Feast, for the very first time willing to give up those things we think we can't live without. Kill it. Kill them. and we'll see that somehow everything we've ever wanted will be fulfilled in obeying you. And Father, for some of us, we're not being like Mary. We're seeing delays in our life, and instead of recognizing that we have to obey you and do everything you tell us, we tend to try to go off and console ourselves by doing things that aren't of your will. Father, we come to your Son, the Lord of the Feast, and we give ourselves to you. Help us to see ourselves to you so that we can eat at your table and your table only. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
