Let me read to you from 1st Corinthians 15 verses 17 through 19. And if Christ has not been raised, your faith is futile. Then those, you are still in your sins. Then those also who have fallen asleep in Christ are lost. If only for this life we have hope in Christ, we are to be pitied more than all men. Look, if Christ has not been raised, your faith is futile. You are still in your sins. Those who have fallen asleep in Christ are lost. And if only for this life we have hope in Christ, we are to be pitied more than all men. I'd like to point out that the passage teaches us that there's a hard edge to the doctrine of the resurrection. I would say that probably around the city there's really two kinds of sermons being preached today, and that's because really two kinds of ways of looking at Easter. You can either look at Easter as a symbol for how things go in history, or you can see Easter as an event or a power that has intervened in history to change things. Either it's a spiritual principle, it's a principle of how things operate in the world, nature and history, or it's an event or a power from outside of nature and history that's come in to intervene and change the way things work. You see, the way to preach Easter as a kind of principle, a symbol, is to go like this. You say, now nature itself teaches us that after death there's always a new kind of life, that after loss there's always gain. Look at nature. Look at after winter there's spring. As the acorn dies, up comes a new tree and then a forest. And therefore, we need to realize that there's always hope, that there's always newness on the other side of death. That when we experience tragedy, we actually have to see it as a time of new beginnings. Now, you know that kind of sermon, and you know this way of thinking. I suggest to you that's wrong. because in order to talk about that, in order to say this is the way things go, that after death comes life, after tragedy comes new beginnings, after winter comes spring, that sort of talking actually does an end run around the real facts and even around your intellect. Nature is too harsh for that. Nature does not give you a principle of optimism. If you look at nature, you see it. The scientists will tell you. that some, listen, that the stronger species prey on the weaker species until the weaker species go extinct. That nature is running down, that things are going to more and more disorder, that the sun itself is burning itself out. It's just a great big engine. It's a fire. It's going to run out of fuel. Look at the, how do you preach Easter as a symbol to the people who were in that airplane crash at LaGuardia not long ago. Now, of course, you've got the people that were interviewed by the reporters in their hospital beds saying, I thought I was goner, but I made it. No, I'm talking about the people who are still lying on the runway, the people who died. How do you preach Easter as a symbol to them, to their families? The doctrine of Easter, the real doctrine of Easter, the historic doctrine of Easter, is that nature and history cannot show us that things are getting better, that there's a silver lining to every cloud, that after every death comes a resurrection. It doesn't show us that. Instead, Easter tells us that there's a force, that there's a power from outside that's come on in. That Jesus Christ, because he was bodily raised, something new has been introduced. There's been an intervention. Now, you see, there's a sense in which I like the doctrine of resurrection because it is just as hard as life. It's just as harsh as life. It's as full of those intolerable sharp edges as life is that always cut you. When the doctrine of the resurrection is ever presented in the scripture, just like here, it's got that hard edge. It always says, if the resurrection, then this. If not the resurrection, then this. What Paul is saying is, if Jesus Christ was bodily raised from the dead in a historic event, that changes everything. We do have hope. All the hope in the world. It changes the way we look at ourselves, and the way we look at our neighbors, and the way we look at history, and the way we look at everything. And if it's true, then a Christian life means going back to that doctrine again and again, to continually reacquaint yourself with the power of the doctrine so that those changes in view and those changes in life will continue to progress. But if Christ was not raised from the dead bodily, let's not talk about the symbol of it, if Christ didn't actually rise from the dead bodily, what does Paul say? Then Christianity has nothing to say. No hope, no exhortations, no inspiration. either or. It's all or nothing. Christianity is not an optimistic pile of stories. It's a power that either is there or is not. And if it's there, it comes from outside and it recreates you from the ground up. Paul says that he is a billboard. There's a place, a great place, where he says he's a billboard. And this is a beautiful, I think, image for all Christians. He says, I'm a billboard on which Jesus Christ has posted the announcement that he rose from the dead. You see, a billboard is a place of announcing something that's really happening. A billboard is not the place to put a philosophical treatise. A billboard is not the place to just put a general philosophical principle. The doctrine of the resurrection is that something happened that was a watershed in history and it was a watershed in personal history. It's a watershed in the world's history and it's a watershed in your personal history. It not only is that you might say the linchpin on which all of history rests, but it's the acid test of whether or not you're a Christian, whether you believe in the resurrection or not. Let me just show you the hard edge of the doctrine of the resurrection. First of all, Paul says, if Christ was raised, then everything changes about history. If not, our view of history is completely different. That's why he's able to say in verse 17, your faith is futile. If only for this life we have hope in Christ, we are to be pitied more than all men. In other words, if the doctrine of the resurrection is simply a symbol for how to live our life here, and if once we die we have no idea what happens afterwards, he says then Christianity is all a sham. It has nothing to say. Look, in the beginning of the chapter, The beginning of the chapter. Paul starts off by showing that the doctrine of the resurrection is a historical event. He says, What I received I passed on to you. Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day according to the scripture. He appeared to Peter, then to the twelve, and after that he appeared to more than five hundred of the brothers at the same time, most of whom are living, though some have fallen asleep. to James and to all the apostles, and last of all, he appeared to me also as to one abnormally born. What Paul is saying is he is absolutely, in this kind of passage, riveting the resurrection into history. It's not just a symbol. It's not just a symbol of how nature works, because frankly, nature doesn't work like that at all. He says this happened. Now, this little statement that Jesus Christ appeared to 500 people after he died at once is one of the most remarkable statements in all of the Scripture. You know, many of you know, that there's lots and lots of debate about who wrote what passages of the Bible. You know, for example, there's many people that deny, many scholars deny that the Gospel of John was written by the Apostle John. Or that they deny that some of the letters that are attributed to Paul actually were written by Paul. What's interesting here is, no one denies that 1 Corinthians was written by Paul. All agree that he wrote it. All agree that it was written within about 20 years after the death of Christ. So there's a sense in which Paul is writing about things that were only 20 years ago. It's similar to writing today about something that happened in 1970. For Paul to make a public statement that 500 people saw Jesus Christ after his death, all at once means that there were people around who really claimed that. There's no way that Paul could have gotten away with such a public statement unless there really were hundreds of people that had seen Christ at once. In Judah, in Palestine, this explains a lot. You see, when the disciples came along, all 12 of them, and they said, we have seen the Lord, he is risen, The average person would say, well, of course you would say that. That's the way for you to get your movement going. That's the way for you to keep your power. That's the way for you to keep your institution. But you see, when 500 people showed up and they said, we saw him, imagine the impact of that. Now, there's no doubt, historically, that there were 500 people that claim to see him. How do you explain that? See, the reason that it had such power is, first of all, don't have a hallucination at once. It rules out the hallucination theory. And not only that, 500 people are too big a group to have a hoax together. Somebody would rat. Somebody would tell, especially 20 years later. How can Paul continue to appeal to them? This explains the reason that Christianity spread so explosively in the earliest days. Do you really think the gospel would have spread like lightning if the first Easter sermons went like this? Well, you know, when the acorns falls into the ground, there's always a tree. And in the midst of tragedy, there's new beginnings. And this is a general principle of life, that even when things are darkest, there is always hope. Can you imagine? Can you imagine this turning the Roman world upside down? The reason that the gospel spread, the reason Christianity ever got off the ground, was a bunch of people got together and said, it happened. Somebody took on death single-handedly and won. We've seen him with our own eyes. Do you see the hard edge of the gospel? The doctrine of the resurrection has never been a comforting symbol. It's always been an in-your-face, in-your-teeth confrontation. If Jesus was raised from the dead, then we have to throw off every other lifestyle and throw off every other worldview and follow Christ. And if Jesus was not raised from the dead, then there is no hope. What right do you have to claim and what basis do you have to claim that somehow life is going to turn out all right? Look at history. Look at nature. The hard edge of the gospel. But listen, Paul was not simply claiming this is a watershed of history. Paul was claiming that the resurrection was the watershed and the linchpin of cosmic history. he says in the early part of the chapter he says Jesus was raised from the dead, he died for our sins according to the scripture, he was buried and he was raised on the third day it's very rare that Paul ever talks about the resurrection without talking about the death of Christ, he died and was raised, he died and was buried and was raised, the reason they go together is because the resurrection was not simply a magic trick it was not simply a effect. Instead, the resurrection is just as important for your salvation, for the forgiveness of your sins, for your acceptance with God. It's just as important as the death of Christ. They go together. They're a one-two punch. How does that work? Well, this is an illustration I try to use every year, every Easter, because it's just about the perfect one. When you pay for something, you need a receipt. Why? Now, I'm finding this out because I live in New York, and New York is an You better keep your receipts because you never know when someone's going to show up and say, how do I know you didn't pay for this? How do I know you did pay for this? How do I know you don't owe this and this and this? Now, those of you who are organized, those of you who are fastidious, those of you who know where all of your receipts are, you can sleep well at night because you know that if someone would show up at your office door and say, how do we know? Prove to us you don't owe this, you don't owe this. You know what you can do? With your triumphant smile, you go to your drawer, you pull out the receipts and you say, be gone, knave. Bother me no more. This is the proof that I owe nothing. This is the proof that it's all been paid for. You see? Now, you know, a lot of us aren't nearly as sure of ourselves. We're much more afraid of that little knock from the IRS. We're much more afraid. We know that we the truth. We know we paid that but we're not sure we can prove it. You've got to have your receipts someplace. How do you know that Jesus really died for your sins? How do you know he paid for it all? You see, you know he did his you know he paid the penalty, he paid the debt because he was sprung. You know he put all of his time in jail because he's out. You know that he paid the penalty, the wage of sin his death because he's alive. And therefore, you see, the resurrection is actually God's way of giving us a receipt, stamping it paid in full across all of history. Do you know what it's like to deal with your conscience, to deal with your accusers, to deal with your fears by getting out your receipts, which is the resurrection? Have you ever seen a Christian die triumphantly? I have. You always get out your receipts. You say, I know my sins are forgiven because 500 people saw him. because the apostles saw him, because I know he's alive. The resurrection and the death together are part of what saves us. Put it this way. It wasn't the death of Christ that transformed the disciples. It wasn't the miracles of Christ that transformed the disciples. It wasn't his teaching. It wasn't his birth. It wasn't until he was raised that they understood what it all meant. You see, if he wasn't raised, then his death was just a noble example of how to suffer. But if he was raised, that proves that his death actually accomplished something. That it actually finished something. That it actually secured something. And that, therefore, it's not your good works, but his death and resurrection, which is completely fulfilled and satisfied the law of God, so you can be accepted by him. It wasn't until, that's the reason why, it wasn't until they saw him raised that they understood what his death meant. And if there's anybody here who says, I believe in Jesus Christ in a general way, I believe he was a great guy, but I don't know if I can believe in the bodily resurrection. Paul says, you're still in your sins. Paul says, unless you believe in the resurrection, you don't know what the death of Christ means. You see, if Jesus wasn't raised, then he's like every other religion. A good teacher who came to tell us how to live and who died nobly. But if he's been raised from the dead, then he's not just a good teacher. He's the Son of God. Romans 1.4 says, God declared him the Son of God by his resurrection from the dead. And if he's raised, then his death was not just a noble example, but it secured something. It actually paid a debt. So it's not your good works, but it's his death and work on the cross that is actually secured for you the adoption, the admission onto the table into the presence of God put it this way, Reuben Torrey a great preacher of the 19th century actually saw this happen he was reading a week before, in fact he was preaching on verse 21 of this passage in which it says, for since death came through a man The resurrection of the dead comes through a man. As in Adam we died, so in Christ we'll be made alive. Listen. A week later he actually saw this happening. He was seeing some people climbing on a mountain. He was part of a mountain climbing team and he was watching another mountain climbing team climb as well. Five men, five men, they were all tied to each other. The last man lost his footing and fell. And as he was hurtling through space, his weight pulled the next man off. And that man fell off into space and then the next man fell off. Now what this means is every one of them was hurtling down into space as good as lost. At the very top, the last man on the mountain saw what was going to happen. He was the strongest of all. and he realized what he was going to have to do. So the minister says he saw this man with his tremendous arms take his pickaxe and with a huge stroke just dug his axe as deep into the mountain as he possibly could and held tight. And finally, you know what was going to come. Finally it came. A horrible, a violent, a sickening snap. And what happened was at that moment he was pulled. He held on. He stayed put. The rope started to constrict around him. It began to strangle him. It began to cut into him. He began to bleed. His ribs began to snap. But he held on. And when all that was over, in tremendous pain, the minister said, incredibly, with all of his might and with all of his power, he began to pull himself up. With everybody else, you see, all of their lostness bore down on him. All of their lack of footing bore down on them. All their weight bore down on him. He bore it all. And not only was he ripped and not only was he strangled, not only was he snapped and not only was he crushed, but he began to pull by his power them up and up and up until the next man got his footing and the next man got his footing. And he said the minister came home and he couldn't believe it. They were all saved. And he said, you see, Adam was like that first man. Our first ancestor fell, the Bible tells us. And we all inherited the sin from... You know, there's not much use in blaming your parents for the sin that you inherited because they got theirs from their parents. And they got theirs from their parents. Adam pulled every one of us down and there was only one man left. That one man was Jesus who decided he would not only die and be cut, but he also would rise so that everyone in union with him would rise with him. You see, if you're a Christian, you believe in the resurrection. Unless you believe in the resurrection, you don't understand what in the world his death means. You don't understand the fact that he was the Son of God. Unless there is a resurrection, there is no hope. It's silly to imagine being able to face life. Paul makes a tremendous argument. The kind of argument I love the most because a lot of you have heard me make it. And up here in verse 31, he says in this chapter, I die every day. If Christ isn't raised, why do I endanger myself every hour? I mean, I fought wild beasts in Ephesus. We're not totally sure what that means there. But he says, why would I do that for merely human reasons? What have I gained? For if the dead are not raised, let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we die. What is he saying? He is saying you cannot get a morality by looking at nature. He says, listen, if there is no bigger reality than this, if when we die we rot, then there is no basis for making a sacrifice. Let's eat and drink and be merry for tomorrow we die. He says, the resurrection though makes me fearless. Last year I said, if you want to celebrate Easter, get rid of your sins. This year I'm going to add to that. If you want to celebrate the resurrection, get rid of your fears. If you don't believe in the bodily resurrection of Christ, Everything to fear. In fact, you're a fool if you're not afraid. He's saying, this is what Paul is saying, the end of your life is coming up on you. You have no way to decide what's right and wrong if all you have is nature. If all you have is nature, the Marquis de Sade and Lenny Bruce were right. What is, is right. In nature, the strong hurt the weak. So how are you going to say that it's wrong for humans to do that? If there is no resurrection, Let us eat and drink for tomorrow we die. But if there is a resurrection, then I can handle anything. Because I know I'm going to be raised. I'll fight. I'll take on wild beasts. Friends, whatever you want, you can get it by going to the Resin Lord. If you want love, if you want to know that you're saved, if you want to know that you're accepted, if you want to know that the man on the mountain, the person that you're united to is someone who will never budge in his love and his devotion for you. If you want to gain your footing today and handle the fears and problems of life out there, then you just have to be united to the one person who has raised himself up and will raise you with his mighty power. Don't be like those people in the old tales who, when the sunrise caught them, they returned to stone. That's how eternity will catch you if you don't have the resurrection truth in your heart and in your life. But if you come to him, whatever you need is in his hand, the risen Lord. let's seek him at the table let's pray to him now our father we ask that you would help us this Easter to realize that your son raises up with his mighty power if we are united to him by faith if Christ has not died and Christ has not been risen we are of all people most to be pitied because we have hopes that will be dashed. If, on the other hand, Christ is raised and we have all the glory necessary to meet anything, we pray only this, that you would enable us now as we take up the elements of the Lord's table to eat and drink the death and the resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ. Help us to regain our footing today by remembering that we're united to the one who was raised and seated at your right hand. In Jesus name, Amen.
