We're going through, I just want you to know I didn't choose this exactly to come back after I'm on vacation and I didn't say, now what do I want to preach? The first week I'm back to my people, yes, Judgment Day, that's it. Wrath of God, fire in heaven, that would be just what I would love to do. I want to come back and preach the good news to my people and I chose no, it came up. We're going through 1 and 2 Thessalonians, two of the letters of Paul to this young church at Thessalonica that he had planted. And today we read 2 Thessalonians chapter 1, verses 1 to 12. Paul, Silas, and Timothy, to the church of the Thessalonians in God, our Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ, grace and peace to you from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. We ought always to thank God for you, brothers, and rightly so, because your faith is growing more and more, and the love every one of you has for each other is increasing. Therefore, among God's churches, we boast about your perseverance and faith in all the persecutions and trials you are enduring. All this is evidence that God's judgment is right, and as a result, you will be counted worthy of the kingdom of God for which you are suffering. God is just. He will pay back trouble to those who trouble you and give relief to you who are troubled and to us as well. This will happen when the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven in blazing fire with his powerful angels. He will punish those who do not know God and do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus. And they will be punished with everlasting destruction and shut out from the presence of the Lord and from the majesty of his power on the day he comes to be glorified in his holy people. to be marveled at among all those who have believed. This includes you because you believed our testimony to you. With this in mind, we constantly pray for you that our God may count you worthy of his calling and that by his power he may fulfill every good purpose of yours and every act prompted by your faith. We pray this so that the name of our Lord Jesus may be glorified in you and you in him according to the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ. This is God's word. Now,

Judgment Day is good news. You know, I made a joke a minute ago. I said, I would like to come back and speak to my people about good news, so here I have to preach on Judgment Day. and though I still maintain what I just said that I wouldn't have chosen this to come back on, I would like to show you that the Christian doctrine of Judgment Day is full of good news. It's full of words of grace. Now, what is the Christian doctrine of Judgment Day? It's actually, take a look, it's really especially there in verses 6, 7, and 8. In verse 6, 7, and 8, it says, God is just, okay? he will pay back. The Lord will appear in blazing fire. He will punish on that day. See, it's all in there. And now the Christian doctrine of Judgment Day, for a moment, let me actually pull back just a second and say that though in a minute we're going to see that the Christian doctrine of Judgment Day is, of course, different, unique, distinct. Basically, all religions of the world

judgment. Even the Eastern religions, who seem so different from us, have a very strong understanding of karma, and that is you cannot live just any way you want, that there is an inexorable justice that will determine your destiny, that you have to account for it. Here's the doctrine of judgment day. The doctrine of judgment day is that someday every single human being who has ever lived will have to stand, face their record, and satisfy the demands of an eternal absolute justice. And essentially all the religions of the world have historically stood on the one side and said, yes, there is judgment. Today we have the modern consensus which says everybody has to decide what's right for them. Now there's two kinds of people in the audience, basically. There always are. Some of you have great doubts. Some of you have little doubts. But anyway, some of you are doubtful about the whole doctrine of Judgment Day. And a lot of you accept it. But what I'd like to show all of you is that the doctrine of Judgment Day is filled with good news. So first of all, let me talk to those of you who are doubtful. To the doubtful, I'd like to show you why to believe it. Because it's so filled with good news. And for those of you who do believe it, I would like to show you how to practice it. Because it's so filled with good news. All right. First of all, those of you who are doubtful. Now, I can't possibly do justice to all the objections that may come up as I say these things. But let me say that there's really two good reasons for you to believe it. The first one is because it's filled with good news. The second one is because Jesus tells us so. Now, let me show you the first one. Two reasons to believe it. Why should we believe it? Well, first of all, the doctrine of Judgment Day is filled with good news. And I'll just, let me isolate two pieces of really, really good news. The first one is, Judgment Day tells us that no sacrifice, no matter how small, No sacrifice you make to be good. No sacrifice you make to be just. People make sacrifices that nobody ever sees. To be honest. To be just. To be kind. And very often it seems in the scheme of things. Those things go for nothing. They're forgotten. They're never seen. They have no impact. They make no difference at all. The deepest desire of our heart. Is to know that when we do those things. Those things count. And the doctrine of judgment day. they count forever they're never forgotten in the musical Les Mis you know when the students who have decided to give their life for the barricade and it's very clear they're going to die for the revolution and they sing this mournful song and at one point they say is your life just one more life now that's a very natural thing I'm sure that if you know you're about to die for a lost cause, die for the right, you have to ask yourself, why am I doing this? In the grand scheme of things, will this make any other difference? Is my life just another life? Will anybody see me when I fall? Could it be my death means nothing at all? Do you remember that? That's all in that song at Les Mis. Who will see me when I fall? Will it make any difference at all? Is my life just one more life? Now, you've got the religions of the world on the one side,

They say there is someone who sees, and therefore everything means something. One of the most wonderful parts of the Bible is the two little words. When Jesus is watching the widow come in and put in her mites, you remember that place? It's in the book of Luke. Jesus is watching. A lot of people come in who are very wealthy and put in a great deal of money. They come into the temple, they put a great deal of money in, Of course, they get a lot of fuss. If you put a whole lot of money in, you get your name on the building. You get your name on the wing. And a widow comes in and just sticks a couple of pennies, virtually, into the offering box. And what does it say? I love these two words. It says, Jesus saw. Jesus saw that the widow had given everything she had. Jesus saw that the guy who comes in, who gets his name on the building because he gave so much, sacrifice at all in the giving of it. And he also saw the widow who nobody else saw. Nobody else could see. How did he know that? Because he's the judge. He saw that she had given everything. Nobody else in the whole world knew what she did that day, but he did. Jesus saw the things you have done will never be forgotten. Everything you do counts. There's a man named Tom Howard who wrote a book some years ago called Chance or the Dance. And a lot of people don't like the way a guy like Tom Howard pushes, but here's what he says. He says, either you have the doctrine of judgment day, which the religions of the world believe, and if it's really true, that means everything means something. Everything means something. Nothing is forgotten. Good deeds, bad things. Everything means something. Or, he says. If it means in the end. The planet just dies. The sun burns out. Human injustice. Goes on inexorably. Until the end of whatever. He says. In that case. It means that. Nothing means anything. He says. You got two choices. You got two views of life. Either. Everything means. Something. Or. Nothing. Means. Anything. is it that distinguishes those two views? Judgment day. Judgment day is very good news. Judgment day means you will not be forgotten. He sees. He knows. And if there isn't anybody like Jesus, if there is no judge, nothing means anything. Your sacrifices mean nothing. No one sees you when you fall. Your life does. Your death means nothing at all. Your life's just one more life. Or judgment day. You see? It's tremendous. Look at the Nietzsche's of the world. The Bertrand Russell's of the world. The Sartre's of the world. These guys were great thinkers. And they got rid of Judgment Day and they knew what it meant. Bad news. Despair. Tragedy. One thing you must not do is say, oh yeah, Judgment Day, I've gotten rid of that primitive religion. And in a very breezy way you say, yes, now I believe in a God who loves everyone if there is a God. things for themselves. You need to see the bad news that comes when you lose Judgment Day and the good news that you've lost. He sees. Let me give you one other bit of good news. Judgment Day is also good news, not just because everything means something. Your sacrifices. These things are not forgotten. He sees your might. He sees what you've done. But on the other hand, it means you can forgive. And I don't know how in the world you can without judgment. At least I can't. I guess let me speak for myself. You can forgive. If you first look at verse 6, it seems very harsh. In verse 6, what is he saying? He is speaking to the Thessalonian Christians, and he says, you know what? There are people out there who are killing your wives and daughters and husbands. There are people out there who are plundering your homes and your businesses. businesses, there are people out there who are really, really doing horrible, terrible things to you. And what does he say? He says, God is the judge. Now, does that, God is the judge. Now, does that seem harsh? Do you realize what this means? The doctrine of Judgment Day, when you really take the good news of this into your heart, it should make you the most patient, most forgiving, most gentle people possible. Because what God is saying is, you don't have to be the judge because there is one. And if you don't believe in a doctrine of judgment day, then what will happen, because you've got a conscience, because you're a human being, is you will have to almost take on the role yourself. And it will kill you. Many of you know, a lot of you know, I know what it's like to be in a job that you're underqualified for. It's a horrible thing. You're scared. You feel crushed by it. When someone has wronged you and you spin out little scenarios of what should happen to them. And whether or not you do this, it doesn't matter. You spin out little scenarios of what should happen to them. And you pull for it. You know what I mean? You pull. You root for it to happen. And to some degree, you try to help it happen. You've put on the robes of a judge of the universe And it will crush you Some of you can't get past what people have done to you Because you haven't received the good news of judgment day You may even believe it maybe in some kind of general way But you don't understand It hasn't really passed into you haven't thought it out You haven't reflected If you're not patient with life And if you're not meek and gentle to people And I think without the doctrine of judgment but either put on the robes of justice or get utterly cynical. But you won't be able to get past what people have done to you. What is Paul saying to the Thessalonians? God is a judge. Get over it. He says, you may think you know what these people deserve but you have no idea what's going on in their lives. You don't know what happened to them. You can't see it. Jesus sees. Jesus knows what's in the hearts. Relax. don't try to be the judge. If he's the judge, you don't have to be. You can be a forgive. You see, I could go on, but I'm trying to say judgment day is filled with good news. That's one of the reasons why you ought to believe it. Now, some astute person out there is saying, wait a minute, let me get this straight. Wait a minute. Under this heading of your sermon, you said you were going to show us why to believe in judgment day. So you're trying to give us evidence for judgment day. But all you've told us is how wonderful it would be if there was a judgment day and how awful things are if there's no judgment day. But that's no evidence. Right. It's right. Caught me. But actually, it didn't. I'm giving you reasons why to believe in it. But that's not the reason that I believe in judgment day. I don't believe in judgment day because I would like to believe it. Because, you know, there's a downside to judgment day. The reason I believe in Judgment Day is because Jesus tells me about it. Let me put it to you this way. Very personally, I, like millions of other people, came to Jesus and looked at the data of his life, and I was overwhelmed by it. And those of us who are overwhelmed by it are overwhelmed because Jesus is an irreducible person. He's an untamed person. He's an unpredictable person. He's a brilliant person. combines virtues and excellencies that nobody else can combine. He's incredibly confident, unbelievably humble, incredibly tender, and wonderfully courageous. No one is like him. He makes claims that nobody ever has made, and yet he lives in a way no one ever has lived. You're overwhelmed by his moral power and attracted by his beauty and his love. And once that happens, you find that Jesus Christ talks more about Judgment Day than all the rest of the writers of the Bible put together. That is an irreducible, unavoidable fact. Paul, yes, is talking about it here. Paul does not talk about this anywhere as much, as often, as Jesus. Jesus talks about it everywhere. He says he will sit on his throne. He will separate people just the way the shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. He talks about it over and over and over. He says, I will come to judge the world. That's the good news. talking about. But look, that's the order. I believe in Judgment Day because if you are attracted to Jesus, he comes as a judge, not just as a savior. You can't say, come in Tim, stay out Keller. I wouldn't know what to do. I'm sorry, I'm both. You either get Tim and Keller or you don't get Tim or Keller. You can't get Tim and not Keller. And you can't say, come in Savior, stay out judge. it's ridiculous in fact I'll show you in a second his salvation means nothing if there's no judgment and therefore I believe this is the order I believe in Jesus I'm overwhelmed by him I'm taken in by him and there is no Jesus without judgment day but once I see that he's the judge, and I know who he is personally, then I begin to see the good news of Judgment Day. And that's why you should believe it. Now, secondly, there's a lot of you who say, well, that was interesting, but you know, I already believe it, but I'd like to show you how to practice it. I've been saying up to now, in a sense, that all religions believe in Judgment Day in some way, in some form. But I'd like to show you right now what this text teaches about, distinctively about Christian Judgment Day. Look at that. That's the beautiful thing about not having your own building. The unpredictability of it. And it from heaven, too. They've been up there a very long time. I was wondering when they would do that. The Christian doctrine of Judgment Day is distinctive. And when you understand those distinctives, you'll see that there's tremendous implications for how we actually live today, how you're going to live today, Sunday, Monday, Tuesday. Let me show you those distinctives really quickly and then draw out the implications. First of all, look at the nature of the punishment. What does it say? In verse, look at it there. It says, and this is the part that we shudder at. And this is the part that we hate. And rightly so. This is the part that should stir up some kind of emotions. That are very unpleasant. He will punish those who do not know God. And do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus. They will be punished with everlasting destruction. Everlasting destruction. Oh my word. But what is that everlasting destruction? Now, this is very important. What is it? The best way to, I translate this particular sentence is, they will be punished with everlasting destruction. Namely, that is, shut out from the presence of the Lord. Now, this is very important. Hear me. What is the destruction? Does God throw burning coals on people's heads? Does he stick pins in them? What does he do? Does he let their mutual funds get wiped out? What does he do? He simply removes his presence. That's all. But that's the ultimate thing. Now, what that tells me on the one hand is the presence of God is unbelievably the source, the face of God, the presence of God must be then source of all love, beauty, and joy. This tells us that all God does is simply remove his presence. Think. This must mean that everybody on the face of the earth is living off of that presence. You may be seeking God and trying to find him, or you may be trying to get away from him, but you're living off of that presence. A person who's walking in a field and sees and feels the sun directly is living off the sun. If the sun would go out, that person would freeze to death. But a person in a cave, a deep cave in the earth, who does not see the sun nor feel it directly is also living off the presence of the sun. So there's no tangible probable evidence. If the sun would go out, the person in the cave would freeze. just like the person on the field. Now, the Bible says that everyone is living off the presence of God, whether you're out in the field or down in the cave, whether you're seeking God or whether you're trying to get away from... You're living off of his presence. You know, Psalm 19 says that the seascape, the seas, the heavens, the stars are telling us of the glory of God. The reason when you listen to a great piece of music that you get joy is it because it reminds you of the face of God. Music is created by God. It's an image, it's a mirror of that which is in his face. You feel a joy when you put yourself into somebody's arms. But the reason you feel a joy is because you're loving someone in the image of God. The joy and the strength you get in a loving relationship, the joy and the beauty you get by looking at the ocean or hearing a great piece of music. All comes from the presence of God. It comes because of the presence of God. It comes from the presence of God. And if that would be taken away from you, you freeze. You can't think. You can't love. You don't want to love. You can't be loved. You can't appreciate a piece of music. You don't want to. Your humanity goes out. Now look also at the incredible justice of this punishment. If that's the punishment, you notice that the punishment is not. Listen, all the talk in the Bible about fire, and it's right there, is figurative. Somebody says, I've been looking for a minister who would tell me that all that stuff is figurative. I don't know what in the world you're relieved about if fire is figurative it's symbolic of something and in this case it would be symbolic of something worse than fire

God doesn't prick people with pitchforks or hire anybody to do it

all he does the sun goes out the presence is removed now do you realize how just that is? there is an incredibly, incredibly famous passage out of C.S. Lewis' book, The Great Divorce, that I think is either based on this verse or certainly is supported tremendously by this verse. And it goes like this. There are only two kinds of people in the end. Those who say to God, Thy will be done. And those who God says in the end, to who God says in the end, Thy will be done. All that are in hell, choose it. no soul that seriously and constantly desires God will miss him hell is for people who prefer something to him and will insist on keeping it even at the price of eternal misery now you know what he's saying incredibly just it's really not a matter of good and bad it's not so much the Christian doctrine of judgment day is not so much good people go to heaven bad people don't oh no it's not mechanical, it's not abstract like that. The Bible says, if you have made God the pearl of great price, if you are seeking Him, you will get what you've been seeking all your life. And if you've been trying to live on your own, either as a moral person or as an immoral person, either as a religious person or as an irreligious person, if you've been trying to live on your own, if you've been trying to be your own God, your own judge, you will get that. Judgment day will only, only, only get, give you what you have after all of your life, period. The Christian doctrine of Judgment Day is unbelievably just. If you want nearness to God, you'll get it. If you want farness from God, you will get it. Simple. You want to live on your own, you will get it. Lastly, now look. Well, not lastly, actually. If you want confirmation of this,

you're saying, this is very interesting. that it's, what are you saying? I'll say, if you want confirmation of it, look at Jesus Christ on the cross. Do you realize that there is only one person in history who's actually gone through judgment day? No, no, look, Christian theology says when a person dies, there is a judgment of sorts, but the final judgment day, which happens at the end of time, after which there's the resurrection, that nobody's been through that judgment day. Nobody's been through that great but one person. There's one person

who's been shut out from the presence of God in the most final possible way. When Jesus Christ was on the cross, God did not prick him, did not pour sulfur on him, did not rain down any kind of literal fire. All God did was turn his back on Jesus. My God, my God, says Christ, why hast thou forsaken me? That's all that happened. And right here we see a wondrous insight. People are continually asking me, how could one man pay for the penalty for so many people's sinful lives? And here it is. Because something happened to Jesus on the cross that made his hell deeper than any other hell that ever has or ever will be. On the cross, Jesus faced God and God him. That never happened before and that will never happen again. God only, according to this passage, turns his back on those who turn their back on him. Only one person in the history of the world faced God and got God's back. You see, with everybody else, God faces us and we turn our back on him and then we get his back. But here's the one place, the one spot, which someone faced In fact, more than that, Jesus, unlike anybody since Adam and Eve, I guess, experienced the presence of God in an immediate way, an unmediated way. The glory and the power and the joy of the presence of God, he had in a way that none of us had. And he was facing it, and the sun went out. And he froze to death. And his hell was deeper than anyone's hell has ever been. And it pays fully, no matter who you are or what you've done. Do you see the justice

of the Christian doctrine of Judgment Day? Do you see the nature of the punishment? Do you see the justice of the punishment? You see how the doctrine of Judgment Day explains what happened on the cross and the cross explains what happens on Judgment Day. Now, what are the implications? Here's the wonderful implications. Who survives Judgment Day? Who survives it? Look what it says. it says, And on that day he comes to be glorified, he will become glorified in his holy people. On that day he comes to be glorified in his holy people and to be marveled at among all those who have believed. Now, first of all, this world, if you look carefully, there is a little Greek verb here, a little Greek compound, that is translated properly Then illuminatingly, but you go right by it. It doesn't say that on judgment day, he will come to be glorified before his people. It doesn't say that we will watch his glory and his glory will just wipe us out. Man, look at that glory. It doesn't just say we're going to see his glory. It says he will be glorified in his people. He will be glorified through his people. I checked every commentary I could. My Greek is very wishy-washy and I checked all the people who know something about it. This says that this is saying that day, his eternal and absolute glory will be revealed, will come into the world through us. John Stott, he wrote a commentary on 2 Thessalonians, says this, he says, think of a filament, a filament in the middle of a bulb. It's bathed, you know, inside the bulb, it's in a particular atmosphere, and then the electric current comes through and it glows and blazes. And this is saying that on that day

we will glow with. We will blaze with. We will radiate with the very glory of Jesus Christ. See all the things that attract you. Look at Jesus. Look at his wisdom. Look at his beauty. Look at his humility. Look at his love. Look at his compassion. Look at his sacrifice. Never a jarring note. Never a false step. Look at that. We will radiate with that. We will be blazing with that. Now

because we're marveling at him. He comes to be glorified and to be, these are connected, to be marveled at. In fact, I want to go so far as to say we will be glorified in him, he will be glorified in us, because we marvel. This is the reason why Judgment Day is so important and so filled with grace. Peter tells us, at the end of the first chapter of his first epistle, his first letter, he says, we preached the gospel to you into which angels long to look. And Jesus says, haven't you read about it? The stone that the builders rejected has become the capstone and it is marvelous in our eyes. What would we be marveling at? what is it that we will see on that day

marveling will utterly change us we will not just simply reflect in some general kind of way we will participate we'll be filaments the glory will just charge through us we will blaze it is because we will see what the angels long to look into and what Jesus said and that is the rejection of Jesus Christ. The death on the cross. See, the word marvel means more than just admire. The word marvel means to have your expectations exceeded. It means to have your desires exceeded. It means to have your imagination exceeded. Thomas Watson, the Puritan, says, marveling means the overflow of your mind and heart. More than I ever dare to ask or think, to see that. But what are we going to marvel at? We're going to marvel in particular at what Jesus did for us. There are many people I know who've said to me, I believe in a general God. I believe in a God who loves. I don't believe in Jesus. I don't believe in the cross. I think God loves everybody. And I hope this, you don't think this is a harsh thing to say, but I've talked to many people over the years who say, I believe in a God of love. I don't know that I believe in Jesus or in the cross, these people do not marvel at the love of their God. They're not amazed at it. They don't weep at it. They're not astonished by it, and therefore they're not transformed by it. Because it's the marveling which is the transforming. When you see that you were going to be judged, but he took it, you marvel in every way. You marvel intellectually, Intellectually, incredible. You see? Let us wonder. You know, remember we sing that? Let us love and sing and wonder. Let us wonder. Grace and justice, you see, have been fulfilled. We sing about that in one of the songs. We marvel at what he's done. And that's what transforms. If you don't believe in Judgment Day, idea what it cost God to love you. You have no idea what God did to love you. And therefore, your understanding of the love of God will be an abstract thing. It will not be a marvelous thing. It will not shock you. It will not amaze you. And therefore, it will not transform you. And if you want me to bring it all the way down here at the very end to the most, as practical as I can be, if you look at verse 11 and 12, you've got, I think, a most astounding thing. And that is that Paul prays. After he tells us this great doctrine of judgment day. He prays. And he says. You know what I'm praying for. Look what he says. He says. I'm praying that now. He prays in the present tense. He says. I'm praying that the name of our Lord Jesus will be glorified in you. And you in him. According to the grace of our God. And the Lord Jesus Christ. And the grammar and the context indicates that Paul is saying that though it's. That this marveling and transformation is not just reserved for the final day. It's completed in the final day. It begins now. You can begin to radiate now. You can begin to glow now. But how do you do it? Just by saying, I'm going to be a better person? No. You marvel. Look. Are you worried? I don't know what you're worried about. Are you worried? Now, you can just be a religious person and say, well, worry is a lack of faith. Or you can marvel your worry away. You can marvel till you begin to glow. What do I mean? I say, well, look. You look at Jesus and you say, Wait a minute. If he would do that for me, is he going to screw me? If he would do that for me, is he going to jerk me around? If he would do that for me, can I not trust him in this area? You see? You can just say, I need to have more faith. I shouldn't be so anxious. Or you can marvel yourself And you can find the marveling is what glorifies you in him and him and you His character comes in it radiates you begin to blaze with it Partially but really Or let me give you one more. Are you irritated with people or are you irritated with somebody just cold and irritated and impatient with people? Well, you know, you know, you can just work on yourself. You can say I'm a Christian and I should be a better person I should be more friendly. I would be better I'd make more friends if I was a friend. Or you can marvel yourself

into warmth and compassion and into welcoming. How do you do that? It's very simple. You have to look at what Jesus has done. The angels are longing to look into it. The angels love to look into it. Jesus, you have to look at this. The stone that the builders rejected has become the capstone. You make it marvelous in your eyes until you say, how in the world can I treat these people this way when God has given what he has given to me? How in the world? Of course they're irritating people. I was an irritating person. Of course they're not being very nice to me. I wasn't being very nice to God. Look what God's done for me. You marvel yourself in. Can you see that? Judgment day is filled with good news. Judgment day is filled with grace. Without judgment day, grace will not be marvelous. And if it's not marvelous, we're all dead. Jesus is an example that we try so hard to get to, or he can be a power in your life that comes and transforms you into him. We sing about it. Let us wonder, grace and justice, join and point to mercy's store. When through grace in Christ our trust is, justice smiles and asks no more. Marvel. and you'll be changed. The good news of Judgment Day, let's pray. Our Father, we thank you that you made it possible for us to participate in your glory in this way. We thank you that your Son came to us and said, look, I'm the judge of all the earth. This is good news. Please see that. and it's taken a lot of us a long time to see it, but we thank you that you've given us some glimpses of it through this particular part of the Word of God. Those of us, Lord, who do have our doubts, I pray that you would help, help them see the bad news of all the alternatives and the good news of your teaching. And for those of us who believe it, but we certainly aren't acting on it, I pray that you would teach us how to obey the gospel, how to act in accordance with the gospel, our lives marveling at the one who took Judgment Day, the storm of Judgment Day into his heart so that on Judgment Day the storm would pass us over. So thank you, Father, for these great truths. Help us to be as changed by them as we should be. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. You're scared, you feel crushed by it. When someone has wronged you and you spin out little scenarios of what should happen to them,

and whether or not you do this it doesn't matter you spin out little scenarios of what should happen to them and you and you pull for it you know what i mean you pull your root for it to happen and to some degree you try to help it happen you've put on the robes of the judge of the universe and it will crush you some of you can't get past what people have done to you because you haven't received the good news of Judgment Day. You may even believe it, maybe, in some kind of general way, but you don't understand. It hasn't really passed into you. You haven't thought it out. You haven't reflected. If you're not patient with life and if you're not meek and gentle to people, and I think without the doctrine of Judgment Day, I don't know what you can do, but either put on the robes of justice or get utterly cynical. But you won't be able to get past what people have done to you. What is Paul saying to the Thessalonians? God is a judge. Get over it. He says, you may think you know what these people deserve, but you have no idea what's going on in their lives. You don't know what happened to them. You can't see it. Jesus sees. Jesus knows what's in the hearts. Relax. Don't try to be the judge. If he's the judge, you don't have to be. You can be a forgiver. You see, I could go on, but I'm trying to say, Judgment Day is filled with good news. That's one of the reasons why you ought to believe it. Some astute person out there is saying, wait a minute, let me get this straight. Wait a minute. Under this heading of your sermon, you said you were going to show us why to believe in Judgment Day. So you're trying to give us evidence for Judgment Day. But all you've told us is how wonderful it would be if there was a Judgment Day and how awful things are if there's no Judgment Day. But that's no evidence. Right. It's right. Caught me. But actually, it didn't. I'm giving you reasons why to believe in it. But that's not the reason that I believe in Judgment Day. I don't believe in Judgment Day because I would like to believe it. Because, you know, there's a downside to Judgment Day. I don't like it. The reason I believe in Judgment Day is because Jesus tells me about it. Let me put it to you this way. Very personally, I, like millions of other people, came to Jesus and looked at the data of his life. And I was overwhelmed by it. And those of us who are overwhelmed by it are overwhelmed because Jesus is an irreducible person. He's an untamed person. He's an unpredictable person. He's a brilliant person. He combines virtues and excellencies that nobody else can combine. He's incredibly confident, unbelievably humble, incredibly tender, and wonderfully courageous. No one is like Him. He makes claims that nobody ever has made. And yet He lives in a way no one ever has lived. his moral power, and attracted by his beauty and his love. And once that happens, you find that Jesus Christ talks more about Judgment Day than all the rest of the writers of the Bible put together. That is an irreducible, unavoidable fact. Paul, yes, is talking about it here. Paul does not talk about this anywhere as much, as often, as Jesus. Jesus talks about it everywhere. He says he will sit on his throne. people just the way the shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. He will appear, I mean, he talks about it over and over and over. He says, I will come to judge the world. That's the good news we were talking about. But look, that's the order. I believe in judgment day because if you are attracted to Jesus, he comes as a judge, not just as a savior. You can't say, come in Tim, Tim, stay out Keller, I wouldn't know what to do. I'm sorry, I'm both. You either get Tim and Keller, or you don't get Tim or Keller. You can't get Tim and not Keller. And you can't say, come in, Savior, stay out, judge. It's ridiculous. In fact, I'll show you in a second. His salvation means nothing if there's no judgment. And therefore, I believe, this is the order. I'm overwhelmed by him. I'm taken in by him. And there is no Jesus without Judgment Day. But once I see that he's the judge, and I know who he is personally, then I begin to see the good news of Judgment Day. And that's why you should believe it. Now, secondly, there's a lot of you who say, well, that was interesting, but you know, I already believe it. But I'd like to show you how to practice it. I've been saying up to now in a sense that all religions believe in judgment day in some way in some form but I'd like to show you right now what this text teaches about distinctively about Christian judgment day look at that

look at that's the beautiful thing about not having your own building the unpredictability of it so

and from heaven too. They've been up there a very long time. I was wondering when they would do that. The Christian doctrine of Judgment Day is distinctive. And when you understand those distinctives, you'll see that there's tremendous implications for how we actually live today, how you're going to live today, Sunday, Monday, Tuesday. Let me show you those distinctives really quickly and then draw out the implications. First of all, look at the nature of the punishment. What does it say? In verse... Look at it there. It says... This is the part that we shudder at and this is the part that we hate. And rightly so. This is the part that should stir up some kind of emotions that are very unpleasant. He will punish those who do not know God and do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus. They will be punished with everlasting destruction. Everlasting destruction. Oh my word. But what is that everlasting destruction? Now, this is very important. What is it? The best way to, I translate this particular sentence is, they will be punished with everlasting destruction. Namely, that is, shut out from the presence of the Lord. Now, this is very important. Hear me. What is the destruction? Does God throw burning coals on people's heads? Does he stick pins in them? What does he do? Does he let their mutual funds get wiped out? What does he do? He simply removes his presence. That's all. But that's the ultimate thing. Now, what that tells me on the one hand is of God is unbelievably the source, the face of God, the presence of God must be then the source of all love, beauty, and joy. This tells us that all God does is simply remove his presence. Think. This must mean that everybody on the face of the earth is living off of that presence. You may be seeking God and trying to find Him. Or you may be trying to get away from Him. But you're living off of that presence. A person who's walking in a field. And sees and feels the sun directly. Is living off the sun. If the sun would go out. That person would freeze to death. But a person in a cave. A deep cave. In the earth. Who does not see the sun. Nor feel it directly. Is also living off the presence of the sun. is no tangible palpable evidence. If the sun would go out, the person in the cave would freeze, just like the person on the field. Now, the Bible says that everyone is living off the presence of God, whether you're out in the field or down in the cave, whether you're seeking God or whether you're trying to get away from, you're living off of his presence. You know, Psalm 19 says that the seascape, the seas, the heavens, the stars are telling us of the glory of God. The reason when you listen to a great piece of music that you get joy is because it reminds you of the face of God. Music is created by God. It's an image, it's a mirror of that which is in his face. You feel a joy when you put yourself into somebody's arms. But the reason you feel a joy is because you're loving someone in the image of God. The joy and the strength you get in a loving relationship. The joy and the beauty you get by looking at the ocean or hearing a great piece of music all comes from the presence of God. It comes because of the presence of God. It comes from the presence of God. And if that would be taken away from you, you freeze. You can't think. You can't love. don't want to love. You can't be loved. You can't appreciate a piece of music. You don't want to. Your humanity goes out. Now look also at the incredible justice of this punishment. If that's the punishment, you notice that the punishment is not, listen, all the talk in the Bible about fire, and it's right there, is figurative. Somebody says, I've been looking for a minister who would tell me that all that stuff is figurative. I don't know what in the world you're relieved about. If fire is figurative, it's symbolic of something. And in this case, it would be symbolic of something worse than fire. God doesn't prick people with pitchforks or hire anybody to do it. All he does, the sun goes out, the presence is removed. Now, do you realize how just that is? There is an incredibly, incredibly famous passage out of C.S. Lewis's book, The Great Divorce, that I think is either based on this verse or certainly is supported tremendously by this verse, and it goes like this. There are only two kinds of people in the end, those who say to God, Thy will be done, and those to whom God says in the end, Thy will be done. All that are in hell, choose it. No soul that seriously and constantly desires God will miss him. Hell is for people who prefer something to him and will insist on keeping it even at the price of eternal misery. Now, you know what he's saying? it's really not a matter of good and bad it's not so much the Christian doctrine of judgment day is not so much good people go to heaven bad people don't, oh no it's incredibly organic, it's not mechanical it's not abstract like that the Bible says if you have made God the pearl of great price if you are seeking him you will get what you've been seeking all your life and if you've been trying to live on your own either as a moral person or as an immoral person a religious person. If you've been trying to live on your own, if you've been trying to be your own God, your own judge, you will get that. Judgment day will only, only, only give you what you have been after all of your life. Period. The Christian doctrine of judgment day is unbelievably just. If you want nearness to God, you'll get it. If you want farness from God, you will get it. Simple. You want to live on your own? You will get it. lastly now look well not lastly actually if you want confirmation of this and you're saying this is very interesting you're saying that it's what are you saying i'll say if you want confirmation of it look at jesus christ on the cross do you realize that there is only one person in history who's actually gone through judgment day now look christian theology says It says when a person dies, there is a judgment of sorts. But the final judgment day, which happens at the end of time, after which there's the resurrection. Nobody's been through that judgment day. Nobody's been through that great judgment day but one person. There's one person who's been shut out from the presence of God in the most final possible way. When Jesus Christ was on the cross, God did not prick him, did not pour sulfur on him, did not rain down any kind of literal fire. All God did was turn his back on Jesus. My God, my God, says Christ, why hast thou forsaken me? That's all that happened. And right here, we see a wondrous insight. asking me, how could one man pay for the penalty for so many people's sinful lives? And here it is. Because something happened to Jesus on the cross that made his hell deeper than any other hell that ever has or ever will be. On the cross, Jesus faced God and God turned his back on him. That never happened before and that will never happen again. God only, according to this passage, turns his back on those who turn their back on him. Only one person in the history of the world faced God and got God's back. You see, with everybody else, God faces us and we turn our back on him and then we get his back. But here's the one place, the one spot, which someone faced God. In fact, more than that, Jesus, unlike anybody since Adam and Eve, I guess, experienced the presence of God in an immediate way, an unmediated way. the glory and the power and the joy of the presence of God. He had it in a way that none of us had. And he was facing it, and the sun went out, and he froze to death. And his hell was deeper than anyone's hell has ever been, and it pays fully no matter who you are or what you've done. Do you see the justice

of the Christian doctrine of Judgment Day? Do you see the nature of the punishment? Do you see the justice of the punishment? You see how the doctrine of Judgment Day explains what happened on the cross, and the cross explains what happens on Judgment Day. Now, what are the implications? Here's the wonderful implications. Who survives Judgment Day? Who survives it? Look what it says. It says, And on that day he comes to be glorified, he will become glorified in his holy people, on that day he comes to be glorified in his holy people and to be marveled at among all those who have believed. Now, first of all, this world, if you look carefully, there is a little Greek verb here, a little Greek compound, that is translated properly and illuminatingly, but you go right by it. It doesn't say that on judgment day he will come to be glorified before his people. say that we will watch his glory and his glory will just wipe us out. Man, look at that glory. It doesn't just say we're going to see his glory. It says he will be glorified in his people. He will be glorified through his people. I checked every commentary I could. My Greek is very wishy-washy and I checked all the people who know something about it and this says that this is saying that Jesus Christ on that day his eternal and absolute glory will be revealed. Will come into the world through us. John Stott he wrote a commentary on 2 Thessalonians and says this, he says think of a filament a filament in the middle of a bulb it's bathed you know inside the bulb it's in a particular atmosphere and then the electric current comes through and it glows and blazes and this is saying that on that day

we will glow with we will blaze with, we will radiate with the very glory of Jesus Christ See all the things that attract you. Look at Jesus. Look at his wisdom. Look at his beauty. Look at his humility. Look at his love. Look at his compassion. Look at his sacrifice. Never a jarring note. Never a false step. Look at that. We will radiate with that. We will be blazing with that. Now, why? Because we're marveling at him. He comes to be glorified and to be. These are connected. To be marveled at. fact, I want to go so far as to say we will be glorified in him. He will be glorified in us because we marvel. This is the reason why Judgment Day is so important and so filled with grace. Peter tells us at the end of the first chapter of his first epistle, his first letter, he says, we preach the gospel to you into which angels long to look. and Jesus says haven't you read about it the stone that the builders rejected has become the capstone and it is marvelous in our eyes what would we be marveling at what is it that we will see on that day marveling will utterly change us we will we'll not just simply reflect in some general kind of way. We will participate. We'll be filaments, see. The glory will just charge through us. We will blaze. It is because we will see what the angels long to look into and what Jesus said, and that is the rejection of Jesus Christ, the death on the cross. See, the word marvel means more than just admire. mire. The word marvel means to have your expectations exceeded. It means to have your desires exceeded. It means to have your imagination exceeded. Thomas Watson, the Puritan, says marveling means the overflow of your mind and heart. More than I ever dare to ask or think, we're going to see that. But what are we going to marvel at? We're going to marvel in particular at what Jesus did for us. There are many people I know who've said to me, I believe in a general God. I believe in a God who loves. I don't believe in Jesus. I don't believe in the cross. I think God loves everybody. And I hope this. You don't think this is a harsh thing to say. But I've talked to many people over the years. Who say. I believe in a God of love. I don't know that I believe in Jesus. Or in the cross. These people. Do not marvel. At the love of their God. They're not amazed. At it. They don't weep. At it. They're not astonished. By it. And therefore. They're not transformed. By it. Because it's the marveling. transforming. When you see that you were going to be judged, but he took it. You marvel in every way. You marvel intellectually. Incredible. You see? Let us wonder. You know, remember we sing that? Let us love and sing and wonder. Let us wonder. Grace and justice you see, have been fulfilled. We sing about that in one of the songs. We marvel. At what he's done. And that's what transforms. If you don't believe. In judgment day. You have no idea. What it cost. God. To love. You. You have no idea. What God. Did. To love. You. And therefore. Your understanding. Of the love. Of God. Will be. An abstract. Thing. It. Not. Be. A. Marvelous. Thing. It. Will. Not. Shock. You. Will. Not. Amaze. You. And. Therefore. Will. Not. Transform. You. And. If. You. all the way down here at the very end to the most, as practical as I can be, if you look at verse 11 and 12, you've got, I think, a most astounding thing. And that is that Paul prays, after he tells us this great doctrine of Judgment Day, he prays and he says, you know what I'm praying for? Look what he says. He says, I'm praying that now, he prays in the present tense, he says, I'm praying that the name of our Lord Jesus will be glorified in you and you in him according to the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ. and the grammar and the context indicates that Paul is saying that this marveling and transformation is not just reserved for the final day. It's completed in the final day. It begins now. You can begin to radiate now. You can begin to glow now. But how do you do it? Just by saying, I'm going to be a better person? No. You marvel. Look. Are you worried? I don't know what you're worried about. Are you worried? Now, you can just be a religious person and say, well, worry is a lack of faith. Or you can marvel your worry away. You can marvel till you begin to glow. What do you do? What do I mean? I say, well, look, you look at Jesus and you say, wait a minute. If he would do that for me, is he going to screw me? If he would do that for me Is he going to jerk me around? If he would do that for me Can I not trust him in this area? You see? You can just say I need to have more faith I shouldn't be so anxious Or you can marvel yourself And you can find The marveling is what glorifies You in him and him in you His character comes in It radiates You begin to blaze with it Partially but really Or let me give you one more. Are you irritated with people? Are you irritated with somebody? Just cold and irritated and impatient with people. You can just work on yourself. You can say, I'm a Christian and I should be a better person. I should be more friendly. I would be better. I'd make more friends if I was friendly. Or you can marvel yourself

into warmth and compassion and into welcoming. How do you do that? It's very simple. You have to look at what Jesus has done. The angels are longing to look into it. look into it. Jesus, you have to look at this. The stone that the builders rejected has become the capstone. You make it marvelous in your eyes until you say, how in the world can I treat these people this way when God has given what he has given to me? How in the world? Of course they're irritating people. I was an irritating person. Of course they're not being very nice to me. I wasn't being very nice to God. Look what God's done for me. You marvel yourself in. Can you see that? Judgment Day is filled with good news. Judgment Day is filled with grace. Without Judgment Day, grace will not be marvelous. And if it's not marvelous, we're all dead. Jesus is an example that we try so hard to get to, or he can be a power in your life that comes and transforms you into him. We sing about it. Let us wonder. grace and justice join and point to mercy's store when through grace and Christ our trust is justice smiles and asks no more

marvel and you'll be changed the good news of judgment day let's pray our father we thank you that you made it possible for us to participate in your glory in this way

we thank you that your son came to us and said, look, I'm the judge of all the earth. This is good news. Please see that. And it's taken a lot of us a long time to see it, but we thank you that you've given us some glimpses of it through this particular part of the word of God. Those of us, Lord, who do have our doubts, I pray that you would help. Help them see the bad news of all the alternatives and the good news of your teaching. And for those of us who believe it, but we certainly aren't acting on it, I pray that you would teach us how to obey the gospel, how to act in accordance with the gospel, how to live our lives marveling at the one who took Judgment Day, the storm of Judgment Day, into his heart, so that on Judgment Day the storm would pass us over. So thank you, Father, for these great truths. Help us to be as changed by them as we should be. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.