Would you turn with me to Ephesians chapter 5?

And we started last week looking at this subject, and it needs another week for sure. It's on the fullness of the Spirit. When I think about those of you who are here, you fall into different categories. Most of you, most of you fall into one of three categories. Some of you don't really know where you stand when it comes to Christ. You're not really sure what you believe. You consider yourself someone who's trying to get it together. And so as you look at Christianity, you don't know completely what you think about it. And therefore, it's very vitally important for you to see that Christianity is vital and organic. That it's something that is not simply a matter, is simply an ethical system or a set of doctrines. That Christianity is something alive. Christianity is more than mere intellect, an intellectual notion, but it's a whole life experience. And some of you are, you would characterize yourself as a newer believer. Newer meaning, regardless of whether you had a church background or not, you realize for the first time, you know what it means to belong to Him, first time. And you come into the church with these... wide eyes and you're ready to say, you know, what is the way to go and I want to learn. And as soon as you get inside, you'll find out that some of the major divisions inside the body of Christ are over this term. Being filled with a spirit. And what does it mean? And some people will say, that's a spirit-filled church. Do you go to a spirit-filled church and you say, hmm, I think I do. What do you mean? And sometimes you may find that this term is used to divide people. And that can be sad and it can be confusing. And then there's a lot of you who, I guess you could fall into the category of an experienced Christian and you wonder why, after all these years, you aren't any further along than you, in your heart, honestly know yourself to be. One of the reasons might be because, though you intellectually, in some general way, have come to your own particular views of what it means to be filled with a spirit, you aren't. You're not doing it. It's not happening. It's not happening to you. So, you see, it's such a critical and timely and important thing to understand. What I'd like to do, some of the things that we talked about last week, I'll simply review. Hmm. I'll simply review.

Some of you are already filled with a spirit in that corner, it seems like. Because it says, if you're filled with a spirit, you're singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord. But could you turn the volume down on your heart? That would really help, you know. Some of you have quadraphonic hearts, I hear. If you remember from last week, we picked up, there was a couple of the points that I'm going to mention tonight that we went into great detail on last week. A couple of points that I just skimmed over, we're going to go back into detail on this week. If you want to try to organize it in your mind, or if you're taking notes, I'm going to try to move through the material, looking at this, I'll read the verse, the key verse again. But looking at it, try to draw out of it these basic topics or headings. I'd like to talk about the magnitude of the importance of the issue. Just why it's so important, the magnitude of the importance of the issue. Then secondly, a few of the marks. If you want to think of three M's, you can tonight. Magnitude, marks. What are the basic marks, what are the basic characteristics of the fullness of the spirit? What is this condition? What does it look like? What does it look like? How do we know what it is? Then thirdly, means. How does the Bible say we can attain to it, or enter it, or experience it? So the magnitude of the importance of it, the marks of it, and the means of it, those are the three headings. Let's start by talking about the magnitude. As soon as we read, I'm just going to read you this one verse. This is the key verse. It's Ephesians 5, verse 18. Let me just read this. Well, I'll read you verse 21. But we're going to be only looking at verse 21. Verse 18. Do not get drunk on wine, which leads to debauchery. Instead, be filled with the Spirit. Speak to one another with psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs. Sing and make music in your heart to the Lord. See? Always giving thanks to the God, the Father, for everything in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. And submit to one another out of reverence for Christ. There's a command. Don't get drunk on wine. That's a negative. But be filled with the Spirit. And then, And that will lead to four results, which we're not going to look at tonight. Speaking to one another with psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs. Singing and making music in your heart to the Lord. Always giving thanks to God, the Father, for everything in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. And submitting to one another out of fear of Christ. Those are the results. We won't talk about that tonight. We've just really got to take this kernel and get every bit of it out. What is the importance? What are the marks? And what's the means of the fullness of the Spirit? And I think we can pretty much cover it. Look, first of all, the magnitude of the importance. We did mention this last week a little bit. Let me show you, though. It's a timely issue because the fullness of the Spirit has to do with experience. Not just thinking. Not just behavior. Not just what we believe and practice ethically. It's talking about the experiential side of being a Christian. It's talking about the mysticism of the Christian faith. The fullness of the Spirit. The reason that's so important. I've... I've... I've alluded to this last week. Is that we live in a technological society. And a technological society is a society that tries to quantify everything. Reduce everything to procedures. Or to forms. Or to numbers. So you can... You can make it a commodity. So you can move it around. Now, the result of the technological society is twofold. On the one hand, it means that there's more of an emphasis on the external than ever. Do you realize how much more important appearances are? And images? Than 20 or 30 years ago? You realize how, for example, in politics, how a person's physical appearance is extremely important in a way that it wasn't a while ago? Do you realize why there's so many people making money? Through selling diets? You know why there's so many more hair restoration clinics than there ever were in the history of the world before? Because there's emphasis on the external. That's the reason why elections are not won through substance or issues. But through images. Through handlers. Through PR. It's a technological society that puts all the emphasis on the image. On the external. And not on the substance or the internal. As a result, the experts are confounded because there is such a hunger in our society for real spiritual experience. That people are turning to anything. Here's what I want to dwell on for a moment. Anything that promises a note of spiritual authority or spiritual reality. Real connection. With the divine and the infinite. People are as hungry. It's confounded the experts. Because the experts thought that in a technological society, religion would slowly die out. In fact, you know, it's funny. Jefferson said he was sure that within 50 years, virtually everybody in the United States would be a Unitarian. And what he was trying to say is the old supernatural religions. The old emphasis on miracles and all that kind of stuff. It's doom. That was Jefferson. People were saying that 50 years ago from today. But instead, anything is growing. Any loony thing is growing. That offers people authority and spiritual experience. Anything from the New Age movement. Anything to the occult. Anything to various meditation techniques. Any kind of religion. Any kind of church that offers it. Now, if you listen carefully, you'll see I'm not trying to condone anything here. I'm just trying. I'm trying to make this point. For example, I'm a Presbyterian. We're in the... The Presbyterians are one of the historic churches of this country. The historic churches years ago said, Hey, we've got to desupernaturalize ourselves. Not talk so much about religion. I mean, about miracles and about the supernatural. Not talk so much about being born again. You know, people are modern now. We've got to move away from that. And as a result, today, you know, you think of the Presbyterians as being one of the... One of the most important churches of the country. There's almost three times as many Mormons today as there are Presbyterians in this country. Three times as many Mormons. The Mormons have doubled in the last 20 years. Presbyterians have shrunk one-third. There's more Pentecostals in this country than there are Lutherans and Episcopalians and Presbyterians all put together. Give me another example. When I say about... When I talk about the old line churches, you tend to think of Latin America as largely Roman Catholic. Do you know? Today, Guatemala is 30% evangelical. Now, again, for a moment, I'm not saying anything in favor of the Mormons and I'm not saying anything right now in favor of the Pentecostals. I'm just saying it's a fact that any religion, anything that offers people spiritual authority and real contact with the infinite is growing. There was a fascinating article in Newsweek about the fact that the Catholic Church in Latin America is very worried about how fast the evangelical faith is growing. And it was one very interesting statement, a fascinating statement by a Latin American priest who said, and he wasn't talking just about the Catholic Church, he was talking about the old line churches. He says, the old line churches have opted for the poor, but the poor have opted for the evangelicals. The poor are pouring in, you might say, to the evangelical churches around the world. Now, am I saying that Mormons are fine? Am I saying, am I gloating over the fact that people are leaving the Roman Catholic Church to become Pentecostals? I'm not saying that. I'm trying to make a point. The experts are wrong, that we are made of body and spirit, and therefore there is an inveterate hunger for the supernatural in the human heart. How else do you explain it? But the danger and the need of the hour, I'm almost done with this point here, the danger and the need of the hour is for some way of discerning between spiritual experiences. C.S. Lewis wrote, a space trilogy, a science fiction trilogy years ago, and the third one, the third novel was called That Hideous Strength. And in it, he, you know, many years ago, he already anticipated the phenomenon of what we call today post-modernism. You see, listen, what's happened today is, and it's not something that's really hit the street yet, philosophers of science and scientists have come to realize they have finally come to realize that science cannot measure all of reality. There's more to reality than they can measure by the scientific method. Or, scientists realize in a sense that they have proven that there's more to reality than they can prove. There's more to reality than they can measure. And as a result, for the first time in hundreds of years, the knowledge classes are recognizing and are being open to the supernatural. See, for example, here's just a quote out of a book. And this is, this is actually almost an irrefutable statement today. Most everyone would agree with this. The work of philosophers and historians of science in this century has shown that all the work of science rests on faith commitments that themselves cannot be demonstrated by the methods of science. For example, science assumes that the universe is rational and coherent and for every effect there's a cause. But this can't be proven. And the perfect example is that the beginning of the universe is a boundary event for science. Either a god outside the universe, an uncaused cause, began things, or matter itself is eternal. That would make matter an uncaused cause, an impossibility by the scientific method. So there is no way to scientifically explain the beginning of things. How it happened clearly happened in a way that defies scientific principles. And in face of this, the very idea that every effect is a cause, rational, and coherent is therefore a faith commitment unprovable by scientific proof. Now, the fact is people have been saying this for at least 20 or 30 years. Science is saying, you know what, we have no way of explaining the beginning of the universe. It had to have happened because here it is. But it's no possible way for us to measure that. Now, most scientists say, therefore, we don't have to be aware of it. But what it means is 300 years ago, before the Enlightenment, everybody believed in the supernatural. And everybody believed in both a negative and a positive supernatural. They believed that there were good spirits. There were angels. There was God. There was Christ. And they believed in evil. They believed in sin and the flesh. They believed in the devils. They believed in demons. Then about 300 years ago, along came the Enlightenment and the knowledge classes decided the idea of the supernatural was not only silly but unnecessary. We don't need the supernatural to explain anything. The last 20 or 30 years, that has crumbled. And, you might say, the knowledge classes have come to say science obviously can only explain a little part of things. As a result, there's this openness to the supernatural. But, the people who are now becoming open to the supernatural after years of, it's been years since anybody has really opened the Bible, they no longer have any way of discerning valid from invalid, healthy from pathological supernatural experience. So, in the book, That Hideous Strength, if any of you have ever read it, what Lewis does is he's anticipating this. In the book, there's a group of scientists who come into contact with what they call macros. Have any of you ever read the book? A macrobe, they say, they said, you know what microbes are? Microbes are lower life forms than human beings, but we have discovered macros. Macros are higher forms of life, higher spiritual intelligences that we now are coming in contact with. Well, the whole point of the book, is the scientists who finally come to the end of science, but having rejected any authoritative truth in the word of God, have no way of telling that these things are demons. You know, any peasant, you know, in medieval England, you know, a thousand years earlier, could have told these great men of wisdom and knowledge that these things are demons. We all know what macros are. Some of them are demons. Some of them may be angels, but angels don't talk like that. Anybody would have known that. And Lewis, trying to point out the need of the hour. Now, when he wrote the book, it was mere science fiction. Today, it's not. Today, it is not. Here's the point.

The hunger of the human heart for a supernatural experience, in a sense, demonstrates that we're both body and spirit. The question, therefore, is, is any experience of the supernatural all right? Is any experience of the mysterium tremendum valid? Or is it possible, that a lot of it is wicked? Therefore, we have to have a way of knowing. We have to. I know there's some people who want to throw up their hands and say, yeah, I know. There's a lot of Looney Tunes out there. A lot of people running around doing all kinds of strange things. I want to have nothing to do with the supernatural or religion or the occult or any of that stuff. It's a lot of hooey. And pretty soon you'll find that your heart is, your own soul is famished. Your own soul needs something. But on the other hand, you can't just move out and take anything that comes down the pike. You've got to discern. And the way to discern is to look at the Word of God that has talked about this and enabled people for, you know, for thousands of years now, the Word of God to make a distinction between valid and invalid supernatural experience. That's why this subject is so critical today. Never more than today. Nowhere more than a place like New York. That's the magnitude of the issue. Secondly, the marks of the fullness of the Spirit. How do you know? If we've just, now look, we've just demonstrated that not any spiritual, religious high is the fullness of the Spirit. Well then, how do you know what it is? And there's two marks. One of them we looked at in depth last week, so I'll just mention it to you. The other one we started in on, and that's the one I want to look at. The two marks are here in the verse. First of all, remember that the fullness of the Spirit is being contrasted with being drunk. And therefore, we can realize that the Holy Spirit fullness would be the opposite of drunkenness or what's called debauchery. Anybody remember what the word debauchery means? It's a Greek word that means to be wasted, to be exhausted. It means to be spent. Therefore, the first mark, and I'll just mention it, but it's so important, especially in light of what I see being called Spirit-filled people. The first mark of the fullness of the Spirit is a life of balance and refinement and absolute self-control. You see, a drunk person has all the time in the world completely out of control of his time or her time. A drunk person has no control of time, no control of his body, no control of his judgment. He's doing things that he really can't do. He attempts things that are beyond his ability. Therefore, a Spirit-filled person is someone with absolute control of his or her time. Think of that. Exquisitely able to understand and know and judge your own limitations. It's a life of complete discipline and balance and refinement. In fact, if you want to really think about this for a moment, take a look at that word debauchery. Don't be drunk on wine, which is debauchery, that word that means spent or burnt out. I have talked to plenty of people, I've seen plenty of people who insisted that they were filled with the Spirit. They were on some kind of religious high. But the fullness of the Spirit doesn't exhaust you. There's a lot of stuff that is plain fanaticism. There's a lot of stuff that's plain emotionalism. How do you know? Because like drunkenness, it wears off. To be drunk makes you feel great for a while and when it's over, you feel worse. You've got the headache. You're spent. You've got the hangover. There are plenty of people that I've seen insisting that they're filled with the Spirit and they have just gotten high on their ego. They've gotten high on their spirit. They've gotten high on mob hysteria. I don't know what it is. The fact is that if it wears off and you're worse than before and you're exhausted and burnt out, it's not the real McCoy. It's not the real genuine article. There are churches that put a lot of emphasis on asking people to be relentlessly in ministries and meetings all the time. That shows that you're full of the Spirit. That shows that you're really walking with Christ and so on. And yet, if the people get burnt out and get exhausted, any ministry that exhausts you is something that's being driven by your ego or by other people's expectations but not the Spirit. I'll go another step. If you're forcing yourself to be happy, if you're forcing yourself to be happy, you will be very tired soon. There is a... It's like... It's drunkenness. It exhausts you. Listen, there's such an important but critical difference it's a small but critical difference between saying I'm a Christian and I should be happy. That's alright to say. I'm a Christian I'm not happy and that's wrong. That's alright to say. I'm a Christian I'm not happy so maybe I'm not praying like I should. Alright. Maybe I'm not being obedient like I... Okay, fine. Go back and obey. Go back and pray and see if the joy comes. That's one thing but to say I'm a Christian and therefore I will be happy is another thing. And some people, plenty of people do that. I'm happy. I'm fine. I'm praising the Lord. A forced breeziness. A forced happiness. And I tell you it's emotionally and psychologically exhausting. And you will find out a lot of people feel that's what it means to be filled with the Spirit. To make myself happy. To insist that I'm happy. To not actually look and say am I really happy? You know, spiritual reality... Fullness of the Spirit means spiritual reality. Drunkenness, gets you out of touch with who you really are. Being filled with the Spirit gets you completely in touch with who you are. And therefore, the first mark of the Spirit, Spirit-filledness, is a life of balance and refinement and control. Does that sound like what you have heard? I mean, have you seen people who say I'm Spirit-filled living a life like that? Sometimes. Often not. Second, and this to me is maybe the most critical mark. And this, if anything, and I did mention this last week, but I want to go into more detail just so you see because I think this is the essence of what it means. If you look at this mark, you'll really know what it means to be filled with the Spirit.

Having said on the one hand that the Spirit is a life of balance and refinement, on the other hand, the Spirit is a tremendous stimulant. Now you might remember this from last week if you were here. All I did was breeze over it. Why do people drink? Some people drink for joy. It's the only way they can forget the problems looming over them. It's the only way they can forget Some people drink for warmth and vulnerability. A lot of folks can only be sort of warm and open and honest and kind of sociable if they're drinking. And thirdly, some people drink

for courage, for fearlessness. Now how does alcohol give you that? If you look at any pharmacology book, it'll tell you it gives it to you because it's a depressant. Well, you say, what? What? Any pharmacology book will tell you that alcohol is a depressant. You say, well, how could, if it's a depressant, why do so many people who get drunk get seem to be happier? The answer is, it depresses your brain. It helps, it shows you less of reality. It knocks out centers of your brain that really show you the ramifications of what's going on. So it knocks out reality, shows you less of reality, and that's how you get happy. But the Spirit clearly is a contrast to being drunk. Don't be drunk with wine, but be filled with the Spirit, and therefore, this is it. The Spirit of God shows you more of reality. The Spirit of God is a stimulant. It heightens your mind. It heightens your heart. It heightens your emotion. And most of all, it heightens your grasp of what's really happening. I'm going to show you, there are a number of places in the Bible that don't use the term fullness of the Spirit, but are talking about the same thing, and unless you see them. Here's the three of them. Number one, you've got Ephesians 1. Verse 18. It talks about the same thing. In Ephesians 1, Paul says, I pray that the eyes of your heart will be enlightened so that you may grasp the power that God has for us and the hope of your calling and the riches of your inheritance in the saints. And when Paul says this to Christians, he knows that they already know that they have an inheritance. He knows that they already know that God is powerful. He knows that they know that. Well, what is he asking for? He's asking, He's asking, He's asking for God to make the truth shine. And when the truth shines, it changes you. It's one thing to say, I know God's in control. But if the truth begins to shine, it's like, you know how when the sun comes out, the stars you cannot see? You know the stars are up there, don't you? Sure, everybody learned that in fifth grade. The stars are there. You can't see it because the sun is outshining them. Now listen. How does alcohol deal with your problems? How does alcohol deal with your problems? What it does is it tries to get you not to look at the stars. Don't look at them. Don't know that they're there. Let's act as if they're not there. But you see, the Spirit of God says, let's take a look at the reality. Let's look at God's control. Let's look at more of reality. And so, see, if God's love and the truth of God's love begins to shine, it outshines the stars. It outshines the rejection. If people are rejecting you, you hit the bottle so you don't have to think about they're rejecting you. But if you hit the Spirit, what the Spirit does is it shows you the love of God in such a way that the rejection of other people no longer is shining at you. It outshines them. This is absolutely critical to understand.

When Elisha, do you remember this? When Elisha was in, was in, Dothan, not Dothan, Alabama, but the Dothan over in, over in Palestine. And they were surrounded by the Assyrians. Elisha was a prophet and he had a servant with him. And the servant said, I'm scared to death. We are going to be wiped out by the Assyrians. He would get up on the walls and he would look around at the Assyrians. And he says, I see the Assyrians. That's why I'm so scared. What did Elisha do? He says, well, let's get drunk. That way we won't see the Assyrians. That's not the answer. No, what did he do? He prayed for the fullness of the spirit. When he said, Oh Lord, open my servant's eyes. Do you remember what he saw when God opened his eyes? They made a movie out of it. Chariots of fire. When God opened the servant's eyes, the servant didn't not see the Assyrians. He saw the Assyrians, but he saw a higher reality. He saw God's chariots. He saw chariots of fire, angels all around the place. And he realized God was in control of history. You lost your job. How do you deal with it? Well, there's a lot of ways of getting drunk. It's not just alcohol. Do you go out and have a fling? There's all sorts of ways of trying to deal with your problems by denying reality, repressing reality, staying away from reality.

That's all some form of drunkenness. The way the spirit does it, is the spirit comes and says, lift up your eyes to the hills. Psalm 121. Who made those hills? Who's in charge of history? Let his power outshine your problems. Look at the reality of things. It heightens your heart. It heightens your thinking. Very important. That's Ephesians 1.

In Luke chapter 22, Jesus appears after the resurrection to two disciples on the road to Emmaus. They don't recognize who he is, but they're downcast. And they don't know why things have gone the way they have. And Jesus says, let me tell you from the scripture. And he talks to them from the scripture. And then at a certain point, he vanishes and they realize it was the Lord. And what do they say? They say, didn't our hearts burn within us as he opened to us the word? Same thing. The truth began to shine. Colossians 3.16. And this is the most critical passage. Understand the fullness of the spirit there is. In Colossians 3.16, we're told, let the word dwell in you richly. And then there's four results.

Make music to one another and songs and hymns and spiritual songs. Sing and make melody in your heart always to the Lord. Doing everything in thankfulness to him and submit to one another. The same results in Colossians 3.16 that you have here in Ephesians 5.18. Let the word dwell in you richly. What's that? What does that mean? It means the word of God gets rich. It gets valuable. It smites you with the beauty of it. Do you see the point? Here's the point. On the one hand, the fullness of the spirit is definitely an emotional, deep experience. I've had people say, I've read where it says, claim the fullness of the spirit even if you don't feel it. That's impossible. The fullness of the spirit is more, than emotion, but it can't be less. It's the most profound experience possible. It's moving you in the whole being. It moves your heart. And if it moves your heart, and it moves your will and your emotions and your intellect all at once, it has to because the heart's the seat of all three. And therefore, it's absolutely critical for you to see that the fullness of the spirit is a deep, emotional, hard experience. It's not something you can claim even though you don't feel it. Of course you're going to feel it. But on the other hand, the spirit never works apart from the word. And that is important. It wasn't that long ago that I read a book about a man named Robert Baxter. He was part of a movement in the early 19th century. And it was led by a man named Edward Irving. They were called the Irvingites. And they believed that the spirit of God was giving them revelations. They got together, and it's an interesting little book. Robert Baxter, who was a barrister, a lawyer, began to hear the spirit tell him to do things like this. To go right into the middle of the law court, right in the middle of a trial, and to stand up and begin to preach. He heard the spirit of God tell him that he needed to go off and be a missionary and to leave his wife and children behind, not to take them with him. And he said, you know, when he had these feelings, these experiences, these words from God, he had never felt more of the love of God ever in his entire life.

And yet eventually he began to realize as he studied the word of God that the fullness of the spirit by definition is taking the truth and making it shine. The definition of spirit-filledness is the spirit, you know, there's a place where Jesus says, and I'll get to it sometime when we get through the book of John. Jesus says, the spirit's work is to take of mine and glorify me, and to take of mine and to show it to you. The whole purpose of the spirit is to take the truth and make it shine. The sun comes out and all the other things that have bothered you, all the other things that have threatened you, all the other things that have controlled you are gone. He began to realize the spirit doesn't work against the word. Why, when the word of God says be courteous, love is courteous, should he get up in the middle of a trial and interrupt? Why, if the word of God says that your wife and her has to come before your job, should I go off and leave her to be a missionary? He began to realize it and he settled down. It's so important the history of the church is divided between people going back and forth. On the one hand, people who say, let's not ask for miracles, let's not talk about emotion, we're very afraid of all of that. And people, on the other hand, insisting on miracles at every turn and being led by their emotions. Instead, to recognize the spirit and the word work together. They must work together. Okay, now, let me just summarize because I've got to stop. That's the magnitude. Those of you Those are the marks. That's what it is. And you notice I'm not saying anything about denominations and you notice I'm not saying anything about all sorts of stuff. I'm not saying anything about tongues or healing and stuff like that. I'm saying that's actually secondary anyway to decide what is the fullness of the spirit. We're talking about the balance and the refinement. We're talking about the self-control. We're talking about the love of the word of God. When the Bible, when in the Bible it says, don't quench the spirit, it says, don't despise prophesying. And prophesying in the New Testament was the preaching of the services. It means that whenever the spirit of God, whenever you're staying away from Bible study or you're staying away from Bible teaching, whenever you sense in your heart any desire to obey the word of God, that's a prompting of the spirit. And you quench the spirit. The spirit gets quenched, see? The firewood you put on the fire of the spirit is the word of God. Meditation of the word of God. Reflection on the word of God. Obedience to the word of God. I wish I could tell you it was simpler than that. I wish I could tell you like some books do, there's two or three things you gotta do. Tonight after the service, come on in the back room and we'll sit there and there's a few things I can teach you. If you just open yourself, the fullness of the spirit will be there. Just do these two or three things. Say these two or three things. Do this to God and it'll be there. I'm sorry. To be filled with the spirit and to be filled with the word is the same thing. Don't quench the spirit. You quench the spirit if you refuse to keep putting wood on the fire and the wood is the word. He makes the truth to shine. There's, listen, last thing. There are plenty of people, there are plenty of people that read and talk to folks that have had these tremendous, tremendous experiences of God's power. Dwight Moody, who was a great evangelist in the, last century. This happened to him in New York. Have you ever heard of this? One day in the city of New York, oh, what a day. I cannot describe it. I seldom refer to it. It's almost too sacred an experience to name. Paul had an experience of which he never spoke of for 14 years. I can only say that God revealed himself to me and I had such an experience of his love that I had to ask him to stay his hand. Or, listen to this. Robert Bruce. This is a great Scottish minister. 300 years before Dwight Moody. He said, I'd never gotten such access to the Lord in my time as I've gotten since I went from you. He's writing a letter. His spirit has testified to my spirit not only by real joys, spiritual and elevated, but by speeches within me in the daylight that I heard almost so sensibly with great effusion of tears to my commendation. That means he felt the spirit just shedding abroad God's love and his commendation in his heart that I admire how he's done. He should bestow such gracious speeches upon such a wretched creature as I am. My heart, howsoever, my friends have cast me off, rejected me and banished me out of their parts, but I leapt no sooner on my horse but the gates of heaven were cast open to me and I got such applause in my heart with such floods of tears, with such real and constant commendation from God that my heart could not wish for greater access. Now, when you read the lives of these people who experienced tremendous outpourings and effusions of the spirit of God, the truth didn't just shine, it just, it burned in. The truth didn't just glow a little bit. The truth was a blaze. That's what the fullness of the spirit is. Somebody says, I want that. I need that. How do I get that? You get it in the path of duty. You get it in the path of going to the word. You get it in the path of obeying the word. You get it in the path of meditating and chewing and memorizing and reflecting. You get it in the path of accepting on the word of God. You get it in the path of letting the word examine you. I wish I could tell you it was easier. I wish I could tell it could happen like that. Those experiences happen like that, but they happen in that path. Look at Jesus' great experience of the spirit. Remember when he was getting baptized and John the Baptist was baptizing him and suddenly out of the heaven came the spirit as a dove and down it came and he heard a voice, this is my beloved son in whom I'm well pleased. That's the commendation Robert Bruce is talking about. That's the experience of the spirit of God, the love of God shining out so, so hard and loud and bright that everything else fades and you become a person of such confidence and such courage and such love. How did that happen to Jesus? Because he was about to attempt a great thing for God. Those things happen to people in the path of duty, in the path of working on the word of God, in the path of attempting great things for God. That's when that sort of thing happens. Do you want that? Don't ask for that. Ask for Jesus. Do you want experiences like that? Don't ask for experiences like that. But say, Lord, command me. That's how it comes. I wish I could tell you it was easier. It's not. But it's simple. It's simple, it's just not easy. Are you ready for it? I'm going to pray and then we're going to sing a song, Lord, You're Beautiful. We're going to sing it through twice. The last stanza we'll do without any accompaniment. And I would like you to consider asking the Spirit to have this influence on you. But you don't just ask for it in a vacuum. It doesn't work apart from the word. He doesn't. So it means tonight, as we pray, you have to say, Lord, my discipline in the word, my obedience to the word, that's my part. I will build an altar. I need your fire to come onto my heart. Let's pray. Father, we thank you that this promise is so great. We thank you that we don't have to, not only do we have to go to the bottle, but we can't, there's no other way to get the love and the courage and the warmth and the joy that doesn't wear off but just gets bigger and bigger and greater and greater unto all eternity. This is the spiritual experience that has no hangover. This is the spiritual experience that doesn't, doesn't burn us out or exhaust us. This is the spiritual experience that we all crave and long for. This is the love that deserves to be almighty. We see it and we ask Lord now for it. But we also realize our part. We submit to you. We give ourselves to you. And we ask as we pray and as we sing that you would visit us, not just as individuals, but as a body, as a congregation, and as the church in New York City. And we ask that you would, that you would turn us into something so beautiful that all people are drawn to you. And now we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.