I am the good shepherd. I know my sheep and my sheep know me, just as the Father knows me and I know the Father. And I lay down my life for the sheep. I have other sheep that are not of this sheep pen. I must bring them also. They too will listen to my voice, and there shall be one flock and one shepherd. The reason my Father loves me is that I lay down my life, only to take it up again. No one takes it from me, but I lay it down of my own accord. I have authority to lay it down and authority to take it up again. This command I received from my father. At these words, the Jews were again divided. Many of them said, he is demon possessed and raving mad. Why listen to him? But others said, these are not the sayings of a man possessed by a demon. Can a demon open the eyes of the blind? Then came the feast of dedication at Jerusalem. It was winter, and Jesus was in the temple area walking in Solomon's colonnade. The Jews gathered around saying, How long will you keep us in suspense? If you are the Christ, tell us plainly. Jesus answered, I did tell you, but you don't believe. The miracles I do in my Father's name speak for me, but you don't believe, because you're not my sheep. My sheep listen to my voice. I know them, and they follow me. I give them eternal life, and they shall never perish. one can snatch them out of my hand. My father who has given them to me is greater than all. No one can snatch them out of my father's hand. I and the father are one. This is God's word.

We said last time that Jesus is here clearly identifying himself with the shepherd, the great shepherd of the old Testament. The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want The shepherd is the one who takes us to still waters, to calm places. The shepherd is the one who restores our weary, aching heart.

Now listen. A shepherd is somebody who takes care of everything. A shepherd is not a partner. A shepherd is not somebody that you enter into a partnership with and he does some of it and you do some of it. A shepherd does everything. is somebody who takes care of you. A shepherd is somebody that you put yourself in his arms and he says, don't think about another thing. I've got everything under control. Relax. No worries. That's what the, uh, that's what a shepherd is. And I challenge you to consider that everybody in this room has been looking for that shepherd. A lot of us have sought to get married or have gotten married to people. And we thought, finally, this is the person take care of me.

This is the person that will meet all my needs. This is the person that last I can relax. This is the person that will give him or herself completely to me. Take care of everything. And surprise, they can't do it. Some of us are very, very upset because we thought our parents were supposed to be our shepherds. You see, we thought our parents were the kind of person who should take care of us completely. our problems and all of our needs always be there giving himself or herself always for us. And surprise, they couldn't do it. And I consider that you have been looking in some cases for friends. You have gotten jobs, working for people. You have voted in leaders thinking this is the one who's going to take care of everything. This is the one. This is the one who's finally going to take care of me. I see it in people's eyes myself. Sometimes you go to a minister like that. How many times have I talked to people and their eyes say, I know if I can just tell you this and if I can just speak to you about this, I know that I'll have no more troubles. I know you'll just take care of everything.

Surprise. And some of you say, aha, yes, I know that. I used to be like that. I've got friends like that. They're always looking for somebody to finally take care of them. but I'm emotionally mature. I'm well adjusted. I know that there isn't anybody like that. Oh no you don't. Because if you have that attitude, if you say I know that you can't look to anybody else to take care of you, then what you've decided is who's your shepherd? You. You've decided that you are qualified to be your shepherd and that's ridiculous. So you're just, admittedly you are less of a nuisance to society than other people. but the fact of the matter is everybody here until they recognize that they need a shepherd and no human being besides this one can be the shepherd until then you are always going to be restless you're always going to be unhappy a lot of you can understand your life up to now and this is the with this key that you have been searching for the shepherd and what does Jesus Christ say here? Jesus says, it's me. I am the shepherd you've been looking for. I am the one you seek. No father love or mother love. No married love. No child love. No friend love. No professional accomplishment. No critical praise or acclaim. Nothing can fulfill you like I can. What is Jesus Christ saying here? He says, look at me. I am huge. I am great. surpassingly omnipotent sweetness. And it is all engaged for my sheep. I bring it all to bear on my sheep. I am the good shepherd. Enter my fold. You know, what he promises is beyond our reckoning. It's like trying to get the ocean in your arms.

Now, the point of this passage is all about whether or not he is the one.

Assumed. Assumption. We all need one. Assumption. We all are looking for one. Assumption. We all have latched on to something to be our shepherd, even if it's us. The issue is who's the real one? Who's the right one? You see verse 19? Some of them are saying, He's demon-possessed. Why are you listening to him? In verse 21, no, he's great. Look at the words he says. Look at the things that he does. The issue is, is he the right shepherd or not? And in this particular part of the passage, Jesus shows us three things that show us that he's the true shepherd. There's three things that he can do that nobody else can. Nobody else can that we latch on to. First of all, the true shepherd gives himself for the sheep. Nobody else will do that for you. He gives himself totally for us. Secondly, he not only gives himself totally, but secondly, he knows us totally. And nobody else can do that either. Then thirdly, the mark of the true shepherd is he gives himself totally. That he knows us totally. And thirdly, that he is God totally. And nobody else can be that either. You see, your soul is so great and your needs are so deep. Now, you always suspected this, didn't you? Your soul is so great and your needs are so deep that the only shepherd that could possibly, possibly restore your soul is divine, is God himself. If you looked at any shepherd besides Jesus, you will not find one who gives himself totally, knows you totally, and is God himself. Now let me just take a look at those three points with you. See how he says it here. And it will restore your soul. Look, first of all, he gives himself totally. And that's pretty obvious. Whoops. Oops. I wanted to wait until it went down before I grabbed it to make sure where it was going. Take a look here at verse, right away at verse 14. Verse 15. As the Father knows me and I know the Father, and I lay down my life for the sheep. But I'd like especially to point out the most strong way in which Jesus expresses his willingness to give himself for us. He says in verse 18 and 17, I lay down my life for the sheep. No one takes it from me, but I lay it down of my own accord. I have authority to lay it down and authority to take it up again. This command I received from my father. Jesus Christ is the one shepherd who lays down his life. You take a look at Jacob. Jacob was a great shepherd. He worked for his father-in-law, Laban. And there's a place where Jacob comes and says, He says, if I lose any sheep, either if they're stolen or they're devoured by beasts, with my own hand I will repay and recompense you. But he doesn't say, I'll die for the sheep. You know, David, we're told, was a great shepherd that when a lion and a bear came and took some sheep away, he followed them down, tracked them down, and killed them. Killed the lion and the bear. He was willing to risk his life for his sheep. But do you think that he would have gone if he had known that the only way to get those sheep back was to forfeit his life? No.

Great shepherds, fine shepherds, but they don't die for the sheep.

The uniqueness of Jesus Christ as a shepherd is that he lays down his life for his sheep and he lays it down voluntarily. He says, no one takes my life from me. I give it of my own accord. This is the will of God. He has given me authority to do that. This is not a suicide. side. But my father has given me this command. My father has given me this authority and I willingly do it. Now listen for a moment. Death is an executioner. Death is an enemy. Death only has a claim on a sinner. Well, what is a sinner? Not a very popular term. A sinner, by the Bible's definition, is anybody who claims the right over his or her own life. Anybody who says, I should be the one who's in charge. I should be the one making the decisions. I should be the one who decides what I do and where I go and what I'm living for. I should be in charge. The Bible says that's what a sinner is. Somebody, in a sense, who has run off with something that is not his or her own property. You didn't create yourself. You don't own yourself. And death has a claim on anyone who has set his or her claim to the lordship of your life. Death has a claim on anybody, and therefore, who's a sinner, and death is our executioner, death is our enemy. That's what the Bible says, and I hope you realize that's very different than what you're going to get if you take almost any class on death. The modern secular understanding of death and the Eastern mystical understanding of death is that death is natural. Death is just the next stage of growth. Death is nothing to fear. You know darn well that's not true. of death. You know that an enemy has been here. You know that there's nothing natural about it. It's a monstrosity. It's a perversion of what should be. The Bible is more consonant with your intuition about death. Death is an enemy. Death is an executioner. Death is out to get me.

How are we going to meet that executioner, the black hooded executioner, the hangman? The Bible tells us that Jesus Christ has gone in before us. But when death meets anybody else but Jesus, we are his victim. He's going to meet you. He's going to meet me. And on that day, we're going to be his victim. The Bible tells us here, though, that Jesus was not death's victim. Jesus says, number one, no one takes my life from me. Now, this is critical to understand. Death had no claim on Jesus. Jesus did not have to die, had no claim. Why? Because he loved the Lord his God with all his heart, soul, strength, and mind, and he loved his neighbor as himself, just as we're all supposed to. Death had no claim on him at all. But, he says, so he says, you know, no one takes my life from me. But, he says, however, of my own accord, I lay it down. There was an old Scotsman who used to teach at Westminster Seminary, And in his lecture notes, he talks about the radical voluntariness of Jesus' death. Because death had no claim on Jesus. What we have here is Jesus says that at the end of his life, he walked into our execution room. And he experienced death just like any other human being would experience death. Death is the traumatic separation of the body from the soul. It's the most traumatic experience possible. It's disintegration. Two things that need to be whole, that should be whole all of our days, they are ripped apart. Death could not come to Christ. Christ came to death. And he walked into our execution room. And John Murray, the old Scotsman, said, And as it were, Jesus Christ put one hand on his soul and one hand on his body and ripped himself asunder.

No one takes my life from me. Of my own accord, I lay it down. And it wasn't just that he experienced the trauma of that separation. Death, you see, the Bible tells us death is radical disintegration. All sorts of things that ought to be held together are coming apart. A decaying corpse is horrible. There's death. Things that ought to be together falling apart, going to pieces, no longer cohering. Yet the Bible tells us that spiritual death, the separation of the soul from God, soul from God who is the source of the soul. The spiritual disintegration, the eternal death, the separation from God, being therefore your soul incapable of love, incapable of receiving love, incapable of joy, incapable of clarity of thought, going on forever. The spiritual disintegration, which is eternal death, is a pain and a misery and a despair, which is so great that physical disintegration that we see here is only a hint of it. Jesus Christ experienced that disintegration as well. Ultimate death. He was cut off from God. As John Murray said, as it were, death didn't come to him. He walked into our execution room and he grabbed himself with two hands and he ripped himself asunder. her. Oh, shepherd, would you really do that for us? Yes, child, says the shepherd, of my own accord. No one can take this from me, of my own accord. And Jesus Christ, our great shepherd, because he gave his life, because he died without any blame and without any debts, Therefore, he has vanquished death. He has broken its claim on us. He has fulfilled all the requirements. And now it has no more claim on us. Oh, shepherd, would you do that for us? Walk into our execution room and rip yourself to pieces and experience that disintegration gladly. That's what he's saying here. No one made me do it. of my own accord I lay down my life.

Listen, let's go on to the second point. We've got to go to the second point. The first point is there is nobody that will do that for you. You have spent a big part of your life looking for somebody. Some of you maybe think you've found somebody. Nobody will do it for you. Because we all have our own sins to die for. We've all got our own problems. Problems. And nobody else can be this kind of shepherd to you. Now, friends, if you pull this in, if you build your life on it, if you build it into your heart, I want you to know just how different you will be. First of all, you'll no longer be afraid of death. I only talk about this in passing, but Hebrews 2 tells us that Jesus Christ frees those who all of their lives long have been in bondage through the fear of death. When I was on vacation, there was some kind of special, news program that talked about the relationship of doctors to patients in Japan. The interesting thing about it is that it is really rare for doctors to ever tell patients in Japan that they had a terminal or a serious disease and the patients didn't really want to know. The really example, for women to wake up after surgery, finding their breasts gone, not having been told before it was going to happen and afterwards figuring, oh, so that's what it was. And what's, you know, Americans can't understand that. But what's the most interesting thing was there was a Japanese doctor who gave a very blunt interview. He says, you have to understand we're not a Christian country. We're not a Muslim country. We're not a Jewish country. We don't believe in personal afterlife. For us, death is the end of personal consciousness and therefore it cannot directly. I'm not trying to pick on a country or a race here. I'm trying to pick on the fear of death. Death is a monster that we have to respect. It's not natural. It's not the last stage of growth, but death is someone that you can spit in the eye of if you're a Christian. you know I until you understand this you're going to be hemmed in by death I hear people saying to me yeah I know that's wrong but I've got to be happy you're being stampeded you're living as if this these 70 or 80 years is all you've got are you kidding right now counts forever it's very normal for example if young people decide I'm going to be a career missionary their parents go crazy they say you could have been a professional you could have made some money your life is wasted hemmed in by death. They can't see beyond their 80 years. Christians are not going to be addicted to safety. If you've lost your fear of death, if you really recognize and see beyond the boundaries of it, it no longer hems you in, no longer stampedes you. You're not addicted to safety. Instead, you stand for what's right. You stand for what's noble. You stand for what's true. You stand for what's redeeming. Oh, death, where is thy sting? Oh, grave, where is thy victory? My shepherd has dealt with you. Look at the defiance of your shepherd. The shepherd says, nobody makes me take my life, lay down my life. I walk in of my own accord. Look at the defiance. He's snarling. He sends a letter of defiance to your sins. And he says, I've dealt with you. He sends a letter of defiance to death and says, I've dealt with you. You can kill that person physically. All it'll ever do is make them more alive than ever before. Oh, death, where is thy sting? Oh, gravy, where is thy victory? shepherd I've got the true shepherd and by the way it was voluntary you know the illustration the most vivid illustration of this verse 18 is in the garden where all the disciples are asleep and there's nobody around and Jesus knows about to die and at that spot God the father in a sense comes to him and says I want you to see what you're going to have to go through let me give you a taste of the disintegration, how you're going to have to be ripped and rent and torn if you're going to save these people. And Jesus, instead of turning and saying, why should I, who are infinitely greater than all the angels, take into my heart this burning agony for these people who not only will never repay me, but can't even stay awake in my hour of greatest need. Why doesn't he say that? Because he's a shepherd.

Friends, look and see. Is there anybody here who thinks you have worn out the love of Christ? Does anybody here think that you've finally, finally, finally gone one time too many, and he's ready to give up on you? Look at this love. Look at the radical voluntariness of this love. Look at the defiance of this love. This love has already endured everything for you. You cannot break it. There is nothing, you see, that you can do to break it. He's still for you. He's radically for you. Gladly for you. Of my own accord. Now, look, secondly, he doesn't just give himself in a way that nobody else can. But secondly, he knows you totally. You know, all the way through the Bible, we see Jesus Christ meeting people and saying, I know you. We don't know what happened to Nathaniel under the tree. You know, when he meets Nathaniel, he says, yeah, I know you, Nathaniel. You know, he's never met Nathaniel. He says, I know you, Nathaniel. I saw you under the fig tree. Nobody knows what happened to Nathaniel under the fig tree. in something very close to his heart or something very wicked or something, because when Nathaniel hears him mention the fig tree, he says, you are the son of God. How did you know that? When Mary is wandering around in the garden, totally confused, totally disoriented, completely upset because her life has ended. Instead, this gardener, this person comes on up and says, what's going on? It's Jesus. She doesn't see. And what does he do? He cuts through it all. And he says, Mary, he calls knows her by name, and her sky clears. Modern writers have shown us that this is one of the great dilemmas of human condition. You know, Sartre talks about the fact that hell is other people. In his play, No Exit, he says hell is other people. We're staring at each other. There's a place where Sartre says, shame is the feeling of having my being on the outside without defense. Illuminated by the absolute light. See, Sartre is saying hell is the feeling of nakedness, of having somebody able to look right down through me and see my inmost thoughts. And we feel that if somebody knows me completely, they will not like me. Anybody who knows me completely will despise me. And therefore, we have to hide. But on the other hand, modern people also know instinctively that's not good. good. Kierkegaard says, in everyone, there is something which prevents you from being transparent to yourself and others, but he who cannot reveal himself cannot love, and he who cannot love is the most unhappy of all. The human condition, modern writers say, is that we're desperately afraid of being known, and on the other hand, we're desperately desiring to be known. In fact, I don't know about you, but I can look back in my life and say, that's a way to understand my erratic behavior for years. I desperately want somebody to know me. And then when it gets close, I desperately don't want them to know me because I'm afraid if they see the real me, they won't love me. The Bible explains this profoundly. You know, the original man, the original woman were naked. The very thing Sartre thought is hell, nakedness. The first man and first woman were You know, 95% of us in this room would be absolutely petrified to be naked or virtually naked in front of a crowd. You know why? We need clothing because most of us have an awful lot of physical imperfections. Our bodies just don't hold up to examination. There's a couple of you out there that probably your bodies would hold up to examination. There aren't many flaws on them, but there's 100% of us here that could not handle the spiritual emotional nakedness. in Genesis 3 originally we're told that man and woman were naked and unashamed but as soon as human beings decided to be their own masters to be their own gods they needed clothing they needed to hide from each other do you know why? have any of you ever had a job of high status, of high authority very well paying and you knew underneath that you had no idea what you were doing and you knew that you were incredibly unqualified for it, not only are you always nervous, but you're absolutely terrified by evaluations,

absolutely panic-stricken by examinations. The Bible says that is the condition of every human being. Every human being knows that though you are trying to be your own God, live for your own glory, call your own shots, make your own decisions, that's our natural condition, you know underneath that you are desperately incompetent. You don't want people to see what an incompetent you are. You imagine everybody else is more competent than you. So you go about trying to be your own master, but underneath, you cannot be known. Yet you want to be known, but yet you're built for intimacy. The Bible tells us on the last day, there'll be two kinds of people. Revelation 6 says that there will be a certain group of people that when they meet God, They will call to the mountains and they will call to the rocks and they will say, fall on us and cover us and hide us from the face of the one who sits upon the throne and of the lamb. And we're also told in Isaiah 61 on that last day, there will be others who will say this.

I will rejoice greatly in the Lord. My soul will exult in my God, for he has clothed me with the garments of salvation. He has wrapped me with a robe of righteousness. As a bridegroom decks himself with a garland, and as a bride adorns herself with her jewels. Listen, that means on the last day, there will be two ways that we will be known. We will be known in our nakedness, like Sartre, it'll be hell. Or we will find that our nakedness has been covered by beauty, by righteousness. For some of us, and I'm speaking very personally here, Nobody else. But if the shoe fits where some of us are homely. And some of us have never looked good except on our wedding day. Because it's a funny thing about wedding clothes. They make almost anybody, from what I can tell up to now in my own experience, everybody I've ever seen decked for their wedding day looks gorgeous, no matter what you really look like. Some of us, it's been the only day that we really look any kind of good at all. Why? Because on our wedding day, our deformity is covered over by someone else who has decked us, who knows us all the way to the bottom, but who loves us anyway, and who has decked us, you see, in beautiful garments, and has received us for a life of love and acceptance and joy. The Bible tells us that the gospel is this, that Jesus Christ, the great shepherd, because he laid down his life for his sheep, Jesus Christ will cover our nakedness with his record and his righteousness. And the secret is right there in verse 14. It says, I know you as the Father knows me. Now, will you get ready to take this in with your imaginations, but I can guarantee you they'll crack under the screen of it. When Jesus Christ says, I know you as the Father knows me, just think for a minute, how does the Father know Christ? The Bible tells us that the Father delights in Christ. us that the Father and the Son are wrapped up in each other's souls through all eternity. That they have been letting out into each other's hearts fully and everlastingly and completely. An ocean of joy and honor and admiration and adoration. They've been doing that for all eternity. They love each other. They delight in each other. The Father uses all of his power to bless and honor the Son. In fact, this verse actually tells us down here, in this passage, he says, this is why the Father loves me. Because I lay down my life for my sheep. If you can speak of it inhumanly, this is actually saying, if it's possible to say, that the Father actually loves the Son even more now. He's seen his strong, courageous love for us. And Jesus has the audacity to say, if you receive me as Savior, if I am your shepherd, the Father will know you as he knows me. It's right there in black and white. We will be clothed like on our wedding day with the record of His Son. He will regard us with all of the joy and all the honor and all the admiration that He regards His Son. The Son is the apple of His eye, the apple of the eye of the Lord of the universe, and we are too.

I know you, but He doesn't just say, I know you. That would be horrible if He said that. if somebody comes up to me on the street and said I know you I know all about you I know about the things that nobody else knows I would go panic and if somebody came up to you would too you might think he's crazy but you say what if he does anybody who says I know you to the bottom Sartre is right apart from the gospel that is hell but that's not what Jesus says as your shepherd. He says, I know you as the Father knows me. What kind of person are you going to be on the last day? What kind of person? How will you be known? Because you will. Don't you see, friends, how desperately you want to be known? My dear friends, some of you, you're working so hard to be successful, so hard to be beautiful, so hard to be loved. You know why? Because you're going The Bible says that God is trying to patch up and cover your own nakedness. You're trying to earn your own self-respect. You're trying to earn your own salvation. The Bible says that Christianity is all about being known. First of all, know yourself. Admit that you're living as your own God. You're underqualified. You need to repent. Secondly, admit that Jesus on the cross has done everything for you. If you receive him as your Savior, that will be your beauty. God will receive you. His eye and his opinion is the only one that counts.

can you do that? Are you ready to do that? Then he can say, I know you as my Father knows me.

Parting shot. Remember what the last point was? This shepherd gives himself to you completely and knows you completely because this shepherd is God himself. At the end, Jesus says, I and the Father are one. And we'll look at this next week, but verse 31, 32, 33. When Jesus is done with the good shepherd discourse, they say, we're ready to stone you. Because we know that when you claim to be the good shepherd of the Old Testament, you're claiming to be God. You see, Psalm 23 says, the Lord is my shepherd. But what is the Hebrew word there? Psalm 23 says, Yahweh is my shepherd. The Lord God Jehovah is my shepherd. And when Jesus claims to be the good shepherd, this is what he's saying. I cannot give you the wonderful rest and soothing still waters unless you first acknowledge me as your absolute Lord. Who is the shepherd? The Lord is my shepherd. Is he your Lord? If not, he can't be your shepherd. Some years ago, in the earliest days of my ministry, I was working 90 hours a week, and I hadn't really gotten the gospel into my life's blood very well. I don't know if I have now. I'll ask my wife later about it. very hard, partly because I was trying to patch up my own righteousness. I wanted to be an excellent minister. Nobody would find any fault with me. I would be there with everybody. I had spent a tremendous amount of time doing that. I didn't get it. I went to the doctor because I was having intestinal cramps and stomach pains. And the doctor said, here, take this. I've examined you and this is what you need. I walked out to the car and I opened it up and it was a prescription for Valium. So I went back in and I said, what's this for? This is a tranquilizer. And he said, yes, he says, nothing wrong with you physically, you're under stress and you're working too hard. Well, you know, my wife had been telling me that and other people have been telling me that, but it was too difficult a thing to deal with. It was too humbling and it changed my schedule after creating all the expectations I had for myself in the church would have been true traumatic. And I suddenly realized with that thing in there, in my hands, that Valium prescription, I had a choice. I could either take the superficial road to peace or I could take the very, very disturbing and substantial and lasting road to peace. I had to let the truth do surgery on me. I had to let it cut me. I had to let it disturb me before it could comfort me. Jesus Christ says they knew that they were going to stone him Jesus Christ says if I'm going to be your shepherd I've got to be your God Jesus doesn't say come to me by being a little more ethical coming to church a little bit more often reading the Bible a little bit more praying a little bit more Jesus says you have to give me your all or I can do nothing for you he's not asking for you to be perfect of course we've been saying that all along he's not asking for perfection he's asking for submission mission. He's asking for you to say, I drop my conditions. I come to you. I know I will fail. You should go to him like this. Dear shepherd, when you laid down your life for me, you were crushed and emptied. And when I lay down my life for you,

I will be filled. And yet I can't do it. I am so weak, my dear shepherd, that I can't even and surrender. I mean, who the heck is too weak to surrender? What does it take to surrender? And yet I can't even do that. I can't take the humbling. I'm too afraid. I'm too weak. Oh, shepherd, can you help me do that? And what does he say? Of course, that's why you need a shepherd. That's what I am. Christian friends, there's some people here, of course, who've never ever had Jesus as their shepherd, and I need to say for the first time, I give myself to you. A lot of you Christian friends, you belong to him, and yet there's so much anxiety in your life. You're like me, needing the Valium, recognizing the fact that he is my shepherd in theory, but he's not my shepherd in practice. Come, there's still waters here. There's green pastures here, if you begin to act as if the words that we have just studied are true. It's up to you. Come and receive him. Let's pray. Now, Father, during the offering, during this brief interlude, we're going to look our lives over. We're going to consider what you have given to us, how you laid down your life for us, how you know us as the Father knows you, and we are going to ask ourselves, what is the proper response to that? By completely surrendering and trusting in you, instead of worrying, instead of disobeying, we know we're going to find our still waters and our green pastures. Everybody, though, in this room now needs your spirit to guide you, guide us to see, every one of us needs that spirit to guide us to see what the next step will be. Show us now, as we reflect, as we ponder, as we consider what it means to have you as our shepherd. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.
