Today's scripture reading is Numbers 21, verses 4 to 9, and John chapter 3, verses 7 to 10, and 14 and 15.

They traveled from Mount Hor along the route to the Red Sea to go around Edom. But the people grew impatient on the way. They spoke against God and against Moses and said, Why have you brought us up out of Egypt to die in the desert? There is no bread, there is no water, and we detest this miserable food. Then the Lord sent venomous snakes among them. They bit the people, and many Israelites died. The people came to Moses and said, We sinned when we spoke against the Lord and against you. Pray that the Lord will take the snakes away from us. So Moses prayed for the people. The Lord said to Moses, Make a snake and put it up on a pole. Anyone who is bitten can look at it and live. So Moses made a bronze snake and put it up on a pole. Then when anyone was bitten by a snake and looked at the bronze snake, he lived.

You should not be surprised at my saying, You must be born again. The wind blows wherever it pleases. You hear its sound, but you cannot tell where it comes from or where it is going. So it is with everyone born of the Spirit. How can this be? Nicodemus asked. You are Israel's teacher, said Jesus. And do you not understand these things? Just as Moses lifted up the snake in the desert, so the Son of Man must be lifted up, that everyone who believes in him may have eternal life. This is the word of the Lord.

There are thousands and thousands of buildings and articles of clothing and vehicles all around the world that have an insignia on them. Anywhere there are medical facilities, you'll see this insignia. It's a snake wrapped around a pole, over the top of the pole. Why is that a symbol, almost a universal symbol of healing? How did it come to be a symbol of healing of all things, a snake? Now, in answering that question, we're going to be looking at the last of our series on The Life of Moses. This obviously is a story about healing. There's a sickness that needs to be healed. There are preps before you can take the medicine. Then, thirdly, there's the medicine that will bring the healing. Then, fourthly, we learn how to get it. So, there's four things that we're told here. There's a sickness. There's preps for the treatment. There's the medicine. and there's how to take it, all in the passage. Strange, enigmatic, weird passage, but enlightening. So let's take a look, first of all, and see what is the sickness that needs to be healed. Now, the children of Israel are going through the wilderness, and they begin to complain. They begin to complain about the food. And of course, this is not just, as we know, if you've been with us on this trip through the life of Moses, the food they begin to complain about is manna. There's no food in the desert, of course. Their life could not be sustained, but God sends them every morning manna, special bread, special food, and they begin to detest it. As a result, into the camp comes what the English text here says, called venomous serpents. But literally, in the Hebrew, it says fiery serpents. And the fiery serpents were not fiery because they were actually on fire, but rather because they set you on fire. When you were bitten by one of these poisonous adders, first, of course, there was the fiery, hot, inflamed swelling in your body where you were bitten. but eventually what it led to was a raging fever, insatiable thirst,

an all-consuming, unquenchable fire within, and finally death.

Now, the first response that most modern readers have to this incident, that there was this complaining about the food, and then in comes the snakes, God lets the snakes come in, and they bite the people, and everyone gets sick, and some of them die. The first sort of a knee-jerk reaction of the average modern reader is that this is disproportionate, that maybe they were wrong, but what God did was overreaction. But I have been helped by a number of readers, a number of commentators, and people who have read this carefully, people who are skilled at reading literary texts, come to see what the author is showing us is that, on the contrary, there is a remarkable correlation, a remarkable proportion, a remarkable consonance, not dissonance, between what the people say and what happens to them. How do I mean? Well, first of all, look at the complaint. What are they complaining about? They say they detest manna. Now, remember what the manna was. Again, if you were here a few weeks ago, it would help a little bit, but I can catch you up. Manna was something that God sent every day miraculously, and it was a sweet, that could be made into a flour. It was as sweet as a honey. It could be made into pastries. It could be made into bread. And it came down every single day in the midst of the howling wilderness. And so it was a direct, wonderful, miraculous, daily testimony to God's power and to his commitment to them. And though at first, of course, they were incredibly grateful, it was their lifeline they had grown to detest it. Now, what was going on? Now, on. One of my favorite columns, you know, I have, I like to rip things out of magazines and newspapers here in New York and put them into folders and use them later on, but really one of my top ten columns is this one by John Tierney. He was, he noticed, for example, that after years of living here that the average New Yorker has insanely high standards for prospective partners and mates. And he gives a couple of examples of this in his column. He says he was talking to a friend who says, well, it started out great. She opened the door. She looked fantastic, beautiful face, great body, nice smile. Everything looked great until she turned around. And John, he said to me, sadly, with absolute seriousness, she had those dirty elbows.

And that was that. The guy went through with the rest of the date, but the very possibility of a relationship was instantly doomed. At first I thought, maybe there's a way to work all this out. Some therapy. Some soap and water.

But then I realized it wouldn't matter. I realized he'd find something else wrong. It's like this all across the city. Well, he seemed so intelligent, one of my friends once said to me, but then he mispronounced Goethe. He said Goeth. And I knew he was faking it. Why are we like this? Could it be that New York drives its inhabitants insane because of all the close encounters with wealth and glamour that are here and that distorts our vision? Now, that's funny. Or is it? Or is it at least a funny symptom of something a lot deeper? Let me take you to another example of what he's talking about, what Numbers chapter 21 is talking about. Let's go back to paradise. Paradise, Genesis chapter 1, 2, and 3. We're in paradise in the beginning of time. That's what the Bible says. And everything's perfect, almost. But there's no sadness, there's no sickness, there's no death. Everything's perfect. And guess what? You can do anything you want. God says to us, you are free to do anything you want, except one thing, just one. You can't eat that tree.

And into the garden comes, get this, the serpent.

And the serpent says to us,

that's not fair.

That's not good enough. This is not good enough. You should be able to eat that. You should be able to go get that tree. It's probably the best tree. God's probably holding you back from something. And when the spiritual venom of the serpent passed into their hearts and souls, when an unwillingness to trust God passed into their hearts and souls,

an all-consuming, unquenchable discontent and thirst began. In other words, paradise itself wasn't good enough. Paradise itself wasn't good enough. In other words, this is what the Bible teaches. Deep in the center of every human being, in the center of every human soul, is a deep interior dislocation. Just as a bone which is dislocated, that it's not centered on its socket, just as when a bone is dislocated, there's pain and there's tearing and there's trauma and there's damage and there's loss of function. So every human soul is dislocated from God. not centered on God, and as a result, there is in our center infinite discontent, okay?

Insatiable discontent, infinite dissatisfaction. And this is why the author of Numbers 21 is showing us very much an incredible correlation. There's no disproportion. What's happening in exactly what was happening in their soul. The relatively curable and minor poison of the serpent in their body was an exact mirror image of the greater poison of the serpent in their soul. It was utterly devastating them. In other words, in every single one of us, there is a raging thirst. There is an unquenchable, all-consuming thirst that will eventually, if it's not spiritually dealt with, if there's not some kind of supernatural intervention in your life, eventually you will find nothing good enough. It will make you unhappy with anything, food of heaven, paradise itself. You will never be satisfied. You have an infinite, I have, we have an infinite capacity for boredom, for irritability with anything, the best things. Now look, it goes This syndrome, this sickness that we've all got, it moves faster, it develops faster, progresses faster if you're successful. You know that? The more successful you get, the faster you come to realize that I have a bottomless pit in me, that there's a black hole in me, there's an infinite vacuum in me, and it doesn't matter what I put in there. At first, it's great, and then I detest it. At first, it's great. She's great. He's great. It's my fault, and I don't like it, and I want to pull away. I mean, as you know, some of you know, I have a large folder filled with quotes from successful people and famous people who, after they got to the top, they said, I don't know what happened. I wanted to kill myself. I just found a new one, not to bother you with any of the old ones. Boris Becker, who was the tennis great, looking back on his life, he said when he was at the height of his power and height of his achievement and fame, he wanted to kill himself. Because, why? Because when he got all those things, he still felt empty. He says, I had won the Wimbledon twice. Once I was the youngest player ever to do so. I was rich. I had all the material possessions I needed. I guess it's like the old song about movies and pop stars who want to commit suicide. They have everything, and yet they're so unhappy. It's true. I had nothing on the inside. It goes faster if you're successful, but we're all on our way. Unless there is a cure, unless there is medicine, unless there's treatment, unless there's some kind of intervention, we are on our way to being unhappy with anything, with everything. Nothing will be good enough. This is the reason why a lot of people never get married or are so unhappy with the person that you are married to. And we'll be unhappy with anyone else you try. This is the reason why some of us are so unhappy with where we are in our career, but you would be just as unhappy. You'd actually get more unhappy the further up you go. This is the reason why so many of us are so down on ourselves or so down on other people or so down on everybody else because we're so down on ourselves. This is why some of us hate the way we look. You'll never be satisfied. There's something in your center that's sick, that's spiritually sick. is a poison in us. There is a raging fever. There is an all-consuming, unquenchable fire that consumes anything you throw in there. Food of heaven, bread of heaven, paradise? It's not good enough, and it will never be good enough until we get some treatment. That's the sickness. You see? There's a perfect correlation with what's happening in their body and what's happening in their soul. What's happening in their body isn't anywhere near serious. Okay, so secondly, sickness. Second thing we see is, here comes the healing, but first, there are three things in the text that we see are the preps. You know, if you're going to have treatment, very often there are preps. And there's three, three prerequisites, as it were, for healing. The first one is trouble. Now, I know this is a troubling text for a lot of people, and I'm going to say something about why it's troubling. The principle is they did not see what was wrong with them until they got sick. They did not see that the thing that was really killing them they did not see it until they started to die. In other words, they didn't see the poison in their souls so they had the poison in their bodies. Unfortunately, and I'll get to you in a second, I know this is troubling but the basic principle We just have to see. Virtually, you never wake up to your need. You never really see what's wrong. You never are willing to admit the prescription or the diagnosis. You're never willing until something goes wrong. Almost all your wisdom, almost all spiritual growth, all this stuff happens because something comes into your life that wakes you up and forces you to go to the great physician.

And this is the first prep for the healing of any spiritual trouble is material trouble

social trouble or economic trouble or physical trouble, some other kind of trouble. So the first prerequisite, the first prep, is trouble that wakes you up. Now, let me just take 30 seconds on this. People say, yeah, but wait a minute. He was, this seems, these people were dying. Is that fair? And the answer is, I wouldn't know how to do this. Here's what, here's what, here's, if somebody said to me, would you please teach an entire nation a major spiritual lesson so they do not,

spiritually destroyed. Would you please teach this nation a lesson? I wouldn't know how to teach the nation a lesson without hurting some individuals, but you've got to keep this in mind. God can do it. Nobody died who died on the wrong day. Every single one of us have a day that we're supposed to die. Every one of us has their days are numbered. Most of my friends who aren't Christians believe that, that our days are numbered, that there's a set amount of time. And so nobody's schedule was changed. So nobody didn't get a chance. In other words, God was able to teach the people of Israel a lesson without being unfair to any particular individual because He can do that. See? So don't let your concerns, which are understandable, hijack you and miss this first very important point. Trouble is the first prep for spiritual healing. The second prep for spiritual healing are friendships in good repair. Now, look carefully. Verse 5, they're speaking against Moses. Verse 7, they're patching things up with Moses. They're saying, we sinned against you. And then what do you have in verse 7 and 8 and on is you have Moses, their friend, praying for them. Now this is, first of all, you almost never have life-changing encounters with God without friends. The first life-changing encounter with God, almost always, the way you meet God the first time is you've got friends. Friends who help you process it. Friends who help you understand it. Friends who listen to you. Friends who sometimes argue with you. Friends who sometimes sympathize with you. Friends that might be a little further ahead of you spiritually, but almost never do you meet God for the first time without friends. But secondly, you can't face the troubles of life. You can't face the difficulties of the wilderness without friends because friends, like here, support you and pray for you and build you up. They could never face this without Moses.

However, friendships are hard things to keep up. They're like houses. It's unbelievable how much maintenance there is. They make movies, funny movies called The Money Pit. It's all about the fact that houses, you have to maintain them or they just deteriorate. They're automatically deteriorating now. You need to work on them. In the same way, unless you're constantly keeping your friendships in repair, which means constantly going and saying, I'm sorry, I sinned against you. I did something wrong. Or you sinned against me. I need to forgive you. You need to forgive me. We both need to talk about this. We both need to clear the air. Unless you're continually doing spiritual repair of your friendships, they won't be there to help you do spiritual healing. If you want to keep your soul in repair, you need to keep your friendships in repair. You need to do all that hard work. Now, two words of exhortation. First of all, and this is brief, but this is a big place. Have you noticed this? There's a lot of people in here. There's four services at Redeemer on a Sunday, it's New York. I know this. There's a lot of you who are on a kind of spiritual search, and so you slip in and you slip out. Nobody in here knows who you are, and that's fine with you. And none of your friends out there know that you're in here, and that's just fine with you too. All right. You're a typical New Yorker. You don't want them to know. And you're a typical New Yorker. You don't want us to know. I want you to realize that this process is going to go a lot slower than it needs to. You need to make some friends here. You need to get into a small group. You need to have people who can help you process what you're hearing and think it out and work it out and find out how they work it into their lives. In fact, not only will it take very, very long if you don't do that, but I suppose it's possible your search may not have a successful ending. On the other hand, here's another word of practical application. Many people say to me, this is what I don't like about church, all this repair work, sorry, always having people say I'm sorry. People get in your feelings or rubs and snubs and reconciliation. It shouldn't be that hard. Yes, it should. You're wrong. Let me show you why. Let me read you a great little quote from a new book I was reading on, Fellowship and Love in the Church. Listen carefully. By Don Carson. He says, the reason there are so many exhortations in the New Testament for Christians to love other Christians is because the church is made up of natural enemies. The church of Jesus Christ is not made up of natural friends. It is made up of natural enemies. What binds us together is not common education, common race, common income levels, common politics, common nationality, common accents, common jobs, or anything else of that sort. Those are the things that bind other groups of people together. Christians come together not because they form a natural because they have all been saved by Jesus Christ, and because they owe him a common allegiance. In this light, then, we should understand the church to be a band of natural enemies who love one another for Jesus' sake. And what he's saying is, the fact that keeping your friendships in repair inside the church is such hard work is not a sign that it's a bad place, it's a sign that it's a supernaturally created place. It's an incredible place. And though it's relationships inside the church than any other of your connections. There's people in here you would never know otherwise, and if on the basis of Jesus you keep your spiritual friendships repaired, they're the ones that can help you face anything. They're the Moseses that you may always have to be coming to saying, I've sinned against you, but once you get that thing straight, through them you'll have the strength you need. Through them you'll have these life-changing encounters with God. Second prep for spiritual healing, friendships kept in good repair. Thirdly, the end of blame shifting. Isn't it interesting when they come to Moses,

they say, we sinned against the Lord. Not we sinned, but this is ridiculous. All we did was complain about the food in the cafeteria and the headmasters having us executed. I mean, this is disproportionate. This is exorbitant. All we did was complain about the food. He's None of that. They know that their problems are their own fault. They know that their problems are self-induced. There is not a word of excuse. There's not a word of blame shifting. We sinned. Spiritual healing starts when blame shifting stops, and not till then. So here's your three preps. Trouble that wakes you up, friendships kept in good repair, and the end of blame shifting. Now, what though is the treatment? What though is the medicine itself? And this is the weirdest, oddest, most counterintuitive, enigmatic possible thing. Of all the things God could possibly tell Moses to do to bring healing, this takes the cake. He says, go take, create a huge image of the thing that's killing everybody. everybody. A huge bronze serpent, put it up on a pole and have them come and look at it. Now, there's all kinds of reasons why this doesn't work. First of all, it doesn't work psychologically. How in the world could it be of any help or comfort to go look at a huge representation of the thing that's killing you? I mean, what would be more demoralizing than that? Surely people would go up there and just burst into tears. So psychologically it doesn't work, but theologically it doesn't work because the serpent in Israel represented evil. It represented sin because of the story from Genesis 1, 2, and 3. It was an unclean animal, Leviticus chapter 11. They weren't allowed to eat it or anything like that. They weren't allowed to have it. It was unclean. In other words, theologically, it made no sense. It represented sin. It represented evil. Why was that being up there? And the answer, of course, is that they And surely Moses probably never figured it out, but we can. Because centuries later, Jesus Christ was in the middle of his famous talk with Nicodemus. It's in John chapter 3. And in John chapter 3, Jesus is about to say, he's basically giving his most famous exposition of who he is. John 3, 16. God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son that whosoever believes in him should not perish but have everlasting life. I mean, that's the most famous verse maybe in the Bible, at least in the New Testament. And right smack in the middle of his trying to explain who he is to the world, Nicodemus and also to us, he says, it's like the snake in the wilderness. wilderness, what that was, I am. As Moses lifted up the snake in the wilderness, the Son of Man will be lifted up. What that was, I am. Now, how in the world could Jesus be like the bronze serpent? And the secret, the answer is in a little verse in 2 Corinthians 5, 21, where St. Paul says, says God made him sin who knew no sin. God made him to be sin who knew no sin. Now, what does that mean? It couldn't mean God made him to be sinful because on the cross he didn't become hateful. He didn't become cruel, did he? No, of course not. To the very last breath, he was asking God to forgive the people who were killing him. So on the cross, he didn't become sinful. full, he became sin. What does that mean? He became, legally, the serpent, evil, sin. He got what the serpent deserves. He got what evil and sin deserves. Do you see this? when he said, I thirst.

Jesus got the poison and got the all-consuming thirst of infinite, infinite dissatisfaction. When he said, you have forsaken me, he got the hell of eternal dislocation. It all fell on him. He got the poison. He got it. He felt it. He experienced it. so that we could be healed. He got what we deserved, so we could be healed.

Isaiah 53 talks about the Messiah and says, by his stripes we are healed. He carried our diseases, by his stripes we are healed. Now, somebody's going to say, that's very moving, and that's very interesting, but why couldn't God have just forgiven? I don't get this. Why can't God just forgive? And you know, for some reason the last few weeks, I've been getting that question a lot from people. And that's a great question. So let me just say something brief about it. Why can't God just forgive? I'll tell you the reason why God can't just forgive. Because nobody can just forgive. Why does God need payment? Why can't God just forgive? Nobody can just forgive. Whenever someone wrongs or sins, there's a loss and a cost. Always. If you've wronged somebody, sinned against somebody in any serious way, there's a loss and there's a cost. And either you, the wronger, will have to bear that cost or the forgiver will bear that cost, but it doesn't go away. My favorite example, of course, is if you break my lamp, I can either say, no, you must pay for that. But if I forgive you, I say, no, that's okay. That's okay. I forgive you. Either I bear the cost by having to buy my own lamp, you know, to replace it, or I bear the cost by not buying a lamp and having darkness in the room. In other words, either you bear the cost or I bear the cost. But there's no such thing as just forgiving. If I forgive you, I forgive you by bearing the cost. This is true, by the way, even when there's not a monetary issue. If you come to someone and... What if you damage somebody's reputation, really damaged it, and they come to you and you say, I'm so sorry. Will you forgive me? There's only two things that can happen. The person can say, no, I'm going to tell everybody what you've done and which means they're going to damage your reputation to get theirs back. Or they can say, yes, I forgive you, in which case they will keep their mouth shut, in which case they will bear the damage themselves. But the point is no one just forgives. The forgiver always bears the cost, absorbs the cost, absorbs the loss. How can God just forgive us? He lifts them up. The way the Lord just forgave us, he had to be lifted up. He had to endure the infinite thirst. He had to endure the eternal dislocation. He had to get the ultimate spiritual, cosmic, unquenchable fire in his bones. bones. He had to experience hell on the cross, and he did. Now, how do we get this medicine? Because, you see, Jesus Christ is talking to Nicodemus as you read him talking about the serpent in the wilderness. How can this be, Nicodemus asked? You're Israel's teacher, and you do not understand these things? Just as Moses lifted up the snake in the desert, so the Son of Man must be lifted up, so whoever believes in him may have eternal life. Now, Jesus is not just calling Nicodemus to get forgiven. He's calling him to be born again. And the reason for that is, and it's very appropriate to use the Numbers 21 reference, is you don't need only to be forgiven. You also need to be repaired. You don't only need, because you're not only guilty, you're also damaged. So you don't only need to be pardoned, you need a new birth. And these folks, when they came to Moses and they confessed their sin, they weren't just forgiven, they were healed. And Jesus Christ says, what you need, what we need, is not simply to be pardoned, we need to be healed. And there's a medicine that will have us born again, that will actually change us. And what is that medicine? It's Jesus Christ lifted up on the cross, bearing our poison, well, how do we receive that medicine? And the answer is, look.

Jesus directly correlates the medicine of Numbers 21 and how they got it to the medicine of the new birth. In other words, he says, as they looked and were saved, so you must believe in me. me. Look. And what does that mean? Well, think for a second. How's looking the way we get the medicine? It's looking rather than doing. First of all, let's go back to Numbers 21 for a second. How did they get the benefits of the snake? How did they get the benefits of the bronze serpent? Well, he says, all you have to do is look. He didn't say, you must go and climb the snake. Well, the agile and still strong ones could do it, but the rest would be lost. He didn't say you must walk over and touch the snake. Even that might be too much for somebody. What if the person's at the very extremity, paralyzed, only able to blink his eyes once for yes, twice for no? Even he can look. It's looking rather than doing.

You see, to be born again, how do you get born? Not by planning. Nobody ever planned to be born. I think I'm going to be born two weeks from now. No. You're not born through planning. You're not born through effort. You're not born through your effort or your planning or your performance. You're born through the labor and love and pain of somebody else. And therefore, you are born again. You get this medicine when you stop doing and start looking. The average person comes and says, okay, I want to find God. What do I have to do? Start coming to church? Fine. Stop sleeping around? All right. Stop taking drugs, okay. What do you want me to do? There's never been a better answer than in the autobiography of Charles Spurgeon, the great 19th century British preacher. He's probably the most prominent preacher in all of London in the 19th century. He tells how he was converted. He was a young man. He was looking to find God, but he didn't understand things. He was sort of in a spiritual search mode. He didn't really understand. And he started visiting churches. churches. One January in 1850, he was trying to get to church, but it was walking to church, of course, and it was an enormous snowstorm, and it was so huge that he couldn't get to where he wanted to go, so he turned down a side alley and went into the primitive Methodist chapel. He says he got in there, and there were only 12 people present because everybody else was snowed out, and the minister had been snowed out. So some poor guy, he said, I think he was a shoemaker, who had not prepared anything. He was a layperson. He wasn't a minister. Somebody said, you give the sermon. So without any preparation, he got up and he stood in the pulpit and he opened the Bible to Isaiah 45, verse 22. And the text was, look unto me and be ye saved, all the ends of the earth. So he began. My dear friends, this is a simple text indeed. It says to be saved, we only need to look. It ain't lifting your foot or your finger. It's just look. look. You needn't have gone to college to look. Even a child can look. You needn't be worth a thousand pounds a year to look. Anyone can look. Ah, but now the text says, look unto me. I now, many of you are looking to yourselves. It's no use looking there. The text says, look unto me. And Spurgeon says, then the good man lifted his arms to the heavens and began to cry. The Lord says, look unto me. I am sweating great drops of blood. Look unto me. I am hanging on the cross. I am dead and buried. Look unto me, I rise again. Look unto me, I ascend to heaven. Look unto me, I am sitting at the Father's right hand. Oh, look unto me. And Spurgeon says, after the good man had gone on for about 10 minutes like this, as long as he could, he noticed me sitting under the gallery and with so few present, recognized me to be a stranger. Fixing his eyes on me, he said, said, young man, you look miserable, and you always will be miserable, miserable in life and miserable in death, until you obey my text. Young man, look, look, look to Jesus Christ. You have nothing to do but look and live. And Spurgeon says, the blow struck home, and I saw it at once. I had been waiting to do 50 things to find God, but when I heard that word look, the cloud finally gone. Like when the brazen serpent was lifted up, the people only looked and were healed. So it was with me. I looked and looked and looked until I almost could have looked my eyes away.

The first thing you've got to see when a guy comes and says, what do you want me to stop? You know, what are the rules? Stop sleeping around, start reading the Bible, start coming to church. What do you want me to do? The answer is lay your deadly doing down, down at Jesus' feet. him and him alone, gloriously complete. In other words, you've been trusting your own doing. Before you were sinning, and now you're going to be good. You were trusting your doing before, and now you're trusting your doing now. Stop trusting your doing and look to his doing, which means look. Look. And what's great about Numbers 21 was that medicine wasn't, now take this and get a lot of bed rest. In about two weeks, you'll start to feel good. You look, bang, and you live. And that's how faith works. The moment you trust, you transfer your trust from all the other things you've been building your life on, all the other things you've been finding your identity in, all the other things that have been the real source of your significance and your value, and you trust in him and not in your doing, in his doing, you live. And here's what's so cool. The healing process keeps going. You're born again in an instant. you're born again the minute you finally say I'm born by the labor and suffering of someone else not by anything I do Father accept me because of what Jesus has done you're born again but the healing process goes on and here's why you know the famous story about how Augustine once after he had been a Christian one of his old flames threw herself sort of at him in the public square and he didn't really respond the old way and she said do you recognize me Augustine? it's me but it's not me. And that cute answer is this. Of course it's still you. But if it's true that salvation is not doing but looking, if it's true that salvation is not just simply subscribing to doctrines but seeing what he's done, seeing him sweating great drops of blood. Seeing him taking the poison for you and saying, now I know my value. Now I know my worth. Now I know my salvation. Now I know my savior. As soon as you stop looking to anything else for that, the things that used to drive you and the things that used to define you and the things that used to elate you and things that used to deflate you, they don't have that power anymore. You are born again in that. You are essentially living another life. Your identity But it's not changed completely. Oh, no, it isn't. Because things still too often deflate you and still too often define you and still too often drive you. And every time, the cycle starts again. Trouble, friends, repentance, looking again. Look to him. And you'll find your identity is strengthened. And the things that drive you don't drive you as much. you as much? You see that? The healing continues and continues and continues because you're a new person. Look to him and be saved. All the ends of the earth, let's pray. We thank you, Father, for giving us an understanding of what is possible. We thank you that we do not have simply pardon, pardon but healing. We see how we can receive it, not by doing but by looking, which is to rejoice, which is to trust, which is in no sense to stop doing. Father, we ask that you would help us to take the medicine. We ask that you would not only help us, some of us here need to take it for the first time, but we also see there's plenty of us who need to go through the preps and take the medicine again and continue to let us, let you heal us more and more. You are the Lord that heals, and we thank you for that. Help us to apply this text to our lives through Jesus. In his name we pray. Amen.
