In your bulletin, it's 1 John 2, 1 to 6. Now what I like about a Lord's Supper night is we can be more brief in terms of my talking, and we have more time for you to meditate and work these things in. And last week we read at least the first part of this passage, and this week what I'd like to do simply is take the doctrine that we talked about last week and put it into, give us some ideas on how to work it into our lives practically, and we can use that as we go to meet the Lord at his table tonight. Let me read you the passage, and I think I'll just read verses 1 and 2. 1 John 2, let me read just verses 1 and 2. My dear children, I write this to you so that you will not sin. But if anybody does sin, we have one who speaks to the Father in our defense, Jesus Christ, the righteous one. He is the atoning sacrifice for our sins, and not only for ours, but also for the sins of the whole world. Now, this ends the reading of God's word. And what I'd like to remind you of is what this doctrine is. said it last week, and then I'd like to just pull out more of the practical implications of it so that we can use it. So we can use it. Everything in the Bible, every practical admonition on how to live your life is always based on doctrine. Now this doctrine, we call it the doctrine that Jesus Christ is our advocate before the Father. Other places in the Bible it's called Jesus Christ is our high priest before the Father. An advocate is a legal proxy. An advocate is someone who has an official relationship to you so that whatever that person achieves, you achieve. Whatever that person loses, you lose. That person is a legal representative. That person stands in for you. And we said that one of the things that's so amazing about this is it shows us the, I guess we could say, the forgotten half of the work of Jesus Christ for us. Most people know one side only of the salvation that Jesus brought us. The one side that most people have heard of, the half that people have heard of, is that Jesus Christ was our representative on the cross. In other words, when we believe in him, him, our sins are imputed to him. They're transferred to him. He becomes legally what we should be. He takes our punishment for us. And so in that sense, when he's on the cross, we understood that he was our representative. Our sins are transferred to him. But as wonderful as that is, that's forgiveness. As wonderful as that is, that's pardon. That's only half. half. He's also a representative now. He's not only, as one old minister put it, he's not only a dying savior, he's a doing savior. He's not only our representative then, he's our representative now. He stands before the Father. And when the Father looks at us, those of us who have believed in Christ, the Father sees Jesus. And that means he's our representative now. Or put another way, it's not just that our sins are imputed to him. That's one half the great transfer. The other half the great transfer is that his righteousness is imputed to us. It's not just, for example, that he deals with our punishment that we deserve, but he achieves the crown for us. He doesn't just give us a blank slate. See, if you only have one half of God's salvation in your mind, your idea of what Jesus did for you, if you only have one half of it, it means that when you come to God and you confess your sins, you believe that now I've been given a clean slate and now I'm back on probation. I better do a good job. But actually,

Jesus Christ is the one who fulfilled your probation. He's put you beyond probation. And the radical thing that we said last week that this doctrine actually brings us is that Jesus Christ, who stands before the Father, we're told he speaks to the Father on our behalf, and he points to his atoning sacrifice. What that means is he is not up there asking for mercy. He is up there demanding justice. He is saying, Father, these are my people. They believe in me. love them. You must accept them. Why? Because it would be unjust not to. To punish them for sins that I have already paid for would be unjust. Therefore, Father, I do not ask for mercy. I ask for justice. I do not ask for mercy. I ask for justice. And I try to demonstrate there's people who find this very hard to believe. They say, well, I can understand the idea that God forgives us through Christ, but then you better lead a good life. And if you sin, if you disobey, you know, you can fall away. You can lose it all. That's not what it says. It says in 1 John 1.8, if we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins. He doesn't say he's faithful and merciful, though he is merciful, but it would be unjust for him

to turn his back on us because not only are our sins given to him, but his righteousness is given to us. Not only does he represent us on the cross, he represents us before the Father. That's the doctrine. There's nothing like it in any other religion. As a matter of fact, as I've tried to show you, even other religions don't even have the idea so much of the cleansing, the forgiveness, the payment for sins. They don't have that. But in addition to that, Christianity brings you this, not just payment for sins, but imputed righteousness. Righteousness from

onto us, into us, onto our account. Now, what does that tell us? How should that affect us? And it should affect us in this way. Let me run down. First of all, number one, actually, let's say one, two, three, four. We'll see how far we can get because we don't want to go long, but I'm going to just briefly run through it. Let me give you, I better not tell you how many, then you're going to get after me later. Number one, first of all, and we started mentioning some of these in get through them in a more systematic way. Number one, it's the only way you can deal with guilt. It's not enough, Lady Macbeths out there, trying so hard to get that damn spot out. It's not enough to simply think about Jesus on the cross. It isn't enough for those of us who are prone to guilt, because if the only place Jesus represented us was on the cross, as I said when you receive his forgiveness, it puts you back on probation. That's all. And I mentioned last week, I remember I told you, I think, that when I first began, when I got into the Christian life and I heard people telling me, Jesus Christ stands before the Father and he prays for us, I told you that it didn't comfort me. It didn't comfort me because I remember thinking, well, you know, I'm going to keep sinning. And every time I sin, Jesus is going to come and say, oh Lord God, please give him a chance. One more. And I remember thinking, how long can God keep this up? How long? How long will he say, okay, one more time? When does even God himself say, this is ridiculous? And of course, that's because my understanding was that Jesus was only my representative on the cross, and therefore what happens when he forgives me is he just puts me back on probation. I didn't understand that Jesus is not up there asking for mercy, but he's reminding the Father of justice oh this is all an anthropomorphism which is a word of saying this is all a metaphor you know the Father doesn't forget these things but this is telling us that inside the Godhead there's a continual when regarding us continual looking at the righteousness of Christ and seeing us in a sense through the prism of that seeing it through the spectacles of that, seeing us through the beauty of that. And until you learn that and understand that, you will never deal with your guilt. Some of us are continually getting

broadcast from the prosecutor. The Bible tells us there's someone named Satan, and the word Satan means the prosecutor. And the prosecution is always beaming into you memories of things that you've done. Technicolor, you know, incredibly vivid. And one psychologist years ago said that the weird thing about guilt is not just its indelibility, but its immediacy. Not just that we can't get rid of it, but it seems to be continually renewed somehow. And the Bible says because you don't only have your conscience to deal with, you've also got Satan to deal with. It's that there are all sorts of forces that will keep you nailed down you understand this. Unless you understand the high priestly intercession of Jesus, unless you understand him... You see, John says, I don't want you to sin, but if you do sin and you don't feel like you can even go to him, here's the one. Jesus came to Simon Peter before Simon did the worst thing that he ever did, the worst thing that he ever would do. Simon Peter was going to betray, was going to deny Jesus in public three times. And now Jesus knew about that. So Jesus comes to him and says, Simon, Simon, Satan wants to have you. He wants to sift you like wheat. Now what's he talking about? He's saying, Simon, you are going to do something terrible. And when you do it, your guilt is going to so overwhelm you. And there is a danger that your guilt will destroy you and lay you in to the low shallows and miseries for the rest of your life, and that you'll never get up. But, he says, Satan wanted to have you, wants to sift you like wheat. What's he say? What's Jesus say? But I have prayed for you. I have gone to the Father on your behalf. And then he says, you're going to fall, And your conscience is going to come at you and the guilt is going to seem to overwhelm you. And you're going to feel maybe like Judas, maybe like killing yourself. And you're going to feel like, how can I ever look myself in the face again? How can I ever face anyone again? And how can I face God again? He says, Satan wanted to have you and sift you like wheat, but I have prayed for you, so when you turn, strengthen the brethren. What does that mean? He didn't say, I have prayed for you if you turn, strengthen the brethren. Jesus says, because I'm your advocate before the Father, I always get what I ask for. I've got an infallible case, my atoning sacrifice. I never go to the Father and say, O Lord, forgive this one. O Lord, strengthen this one. I never do. I'm never turned down because I have an infallible case. I'm not up there pleading for God to the Father. I'm showing the Father what the truth is. I'm showing him the law. I'm showing him what I did. Therefore, therefore, because I'm your advocate, you will overcome this guilt. It's not a matter of if, it's only a matter of when. When you turn back, you're going to be able to strengthen other people. Do you understand that? Are you a Christian? Are you somebody who said, nothing in my hands I bring, simply to the cross I cling. Lord, not because of anything that I've done, but because of what you've done, receive me, then there is no reason for you to let Satan sift you like wheat. He's prayed for you. There's no reason why you can't get up. Don't you see? Do you really think that somehow your sins are too great for the righteousness of Jesus Christ to overcome before the eyes of the God, the Father? Guilt. Blow it out of the There is no other way to do it. I don't know what psychologists do. I really don't. Because you notice what psychologists do is they say, here's guilt. Guilt's there all the time. Unless you have some spiritual resources, how do you deal with guilt? You either have to decide that it's false guilt. Don't feel guilty because you shouldn't be guilty. You shouldn't feel guilty for that. So you have to actually say, what you've done isn't wrong. Now that's a religious point of view, is it not? If somebody's hurting because of guilt and you say, of the guilt, what you did was not wrong. You can't establish that scientifically. That is not social psychology. That's not sociology. That's not scientific. That is a religious statement. I hope you have a good reason to say that. I hope you've got some kind of religious authority on which you're saying that. You can say that, or what's the other thing you can say to a person? You can say, well, you really didn't do wrong. Then the other thing you could say to help a person deal with guilt is to say, well, you're going to have to do something to kind of work

and that's what you've been trying to do, and you can't. How do you work off a debt like that? You can't. And the only, you can say it's not really true, you're not guilty. Or secondly, you can say, well, work it off, but that's what's been killing you. What else do you say? Unless you say, if you sin,

we have one that goes to the Father on our behalf. Okay, guilt, that's the first thing. if you understand this wonderful doctrine, you have got not just a basis for dealing with guilt, but you've also got a basis for dealing with your anxiety and discouragement. One of the reasons, a guy named Tertullian, some years ago, many years ago as a matter of fact, once said that this great gospel, the gospel, the idea that though you are a wicked sinner, yet because Christ stands before the Father, you are completely and perfectly and infallibly and eternally accepted. Tertullian said the problem is this gospel is continually crucified, just like Jesus Christ, between two thieves, one on the left and one on the right. Because see, the gospel has the good and the bad news. The bad news is you're a sinner, very wicked. The good news is you're completely accepted in Christ. Now, Tertullian says people have trouble holding those things together. So some folks basically say, you're really a very wicked sinner, but they don't really believe that you're accepted because they don't see the Son standing before the Father. But on the other hand, there's other people who say, no, God accepts everyone, but they don't actually, and they lost sight of the fact that we're sinners. Now, when you deal with discouragement, when you're cast down, when you feel like you've hit not because of guilt, but because something you've hoped for has not come through. Something you set your heart on hasn't come through. What do you do with it? Well, there's the thief on the left hand. I'm going to call it the legalism thief. And the thief on the left hand, of course, says, yeah, yeah, you're really a bad person. You really are. And says, the way you're going to feel better is that you've got to repent. There's something wrong in your life. There's some kind of sin in your life somewhere. That's why you're so unhappy. Just repent. And the thief on the And the thief on the right hand says yes, you're discouraged and you're depressed but you just don't see that God loves you just the way you are. God loves everybody. There's nothing wrong with you. You just lack self-esteem. Do something nice for yourself. Tell yourself you're a wonderful person. See that God loves you just as you are. So you have the thief on the left and you have the thief on the right and on the one hand, most of us have gone back and forth. We've been raised in kind of moralistic situations somebody said, well, you're doing something wrong. You know, fess up. And we've moved into permissive and wide open, liberal, you might say, situations where people say, hey, everybody has to decide what's right or wrong for them. You're wonderful just the way you are. But the gospel is neither of those. The gospel says the reason you're so discouraged is because you've been sending something besides Jesus Christ to speak on your behalf. There's been other things that you've put There's been other things that have been your savior. There's been other things that have been your salvation. There's been other things that have been your righteousness. And because of that these things will always let you down. You need to make Jesus Christ your honor. See Christians grow not mainly I don't think through repenting of their sins. The way you grow into a person of greatness is mainly by repenting for your righteousness. It's mainly by finding those things which you have put your trust in instead of Jesus, to be your righteousness before the Father, finding out what those things are, and saying, these are good things, but they're too central to me. Only Jesus is my righteousness. Only Jesus is my salvation. And only as you do that do you find that you're not subject to the ups and downs. Don't you see? The moralistic Christian, you might say, the moralistic Christian says, you're sinning. That's why you feel bad. And let's call it the psychologizing Christian over here says, you just don't see that God loves you as you are. But the biblical Christian, the person who understands the gospel says, I am discouraged because something besides Jesus Christ has been standing in for me. I'm going to find out what that is. I'm going to say, Lord, it's too central to me. It's an Isaac. I have to raise the dagger over it. Not because it's bad in itself, but because it's become my righteousness and become my savior. here. See, that's so different. Thirdly, when you take the gospel, when you take this idea that Jesus Christ is your representative before God, not only does it help you deal with guilt, not only does it help you deal with discouragement, but in addition, I'm going to choose one here, but in addition, it helps you to have self-discipline. And the self-discipline comes the part of the passage I didn't really read. Verse 3, 4, 5, and 6. It says, we know that we have come to know him if we obey his commands. Now, here's what's so wonderful about this. John is saying obedience in a Christian life flows out of knowing God. It's not like we know we know him because we obey. See, let's look at this carefully. It says, obedience doesn't lead to intimacy with God. Intimacy with God leads to obedience in the Christian life. You don't obey because you're afraid you're going to lose what God has given you. Oh no. Instead, you obey because you know that you're secure. Those are two completely different ways to obey. Put it another way. You can obey God out of fear that God's love is conditional. Hear me out. You can obey, and this, because I'm sure some of you are doing this, you can obey God. You can say, I'm going to try to stay pure. I'm going to be honest. I'm going to try to, you know, stay on the straight and narrow, because you're afraid God's love is conditional. That if you don't do right, it'll wear God's love out, and he'll say, I've had it. How many times? and that's the reason you obey. If you obey out of fear that God's love can't last, that you might lose it, it's going to stretch you. You're going to be a driven person because love alone can waken love. Fear can't awaken love. The other way that you can obey, the other way you can get self-discipline and say, look at the love that God has put on me infallibly, immutably, at incredible cost. It cannot change. Therefore, how dare I sin against a love like that? You see, it's not like I better obey or I'll lose the love. I better obey because I can't lose the love, and how can I disobey against love like that? Is that incentive? Does that bring self-discipline? Does that bring obey? Yes. But it's a clean discipline. It doesn't grate at you. You know why? Fear elicits fear. Love elicits love. If you see what Jesus Christ has done so that you could be infallibly and immutably loved, it brings about a new kind of self-discipline. If you have been trying to discipline yourself to be godly or to be good or to be right in a certain way, And over the years, you just can't. You haven't gotten any better. You haven't been able to overcome your bad habits. Listen, I'm not a counselor. If you come see me, I may not be able to unravel this. I'm a preacher. In other words, broad strokes, all I know is that you are not obeying out of a knowledge of his love, that his love is absolutely infallible. It is absolutely immutable. It is based on the fact that Jesus Christ is your representative now. and that his love cannot wear out therefore because his love and his justice are the same thing now in Christ. It would be unjust for him not to love you. His love is no longer in tension with his love and his justice are no longer in tension. It's knowing that. That is incentive. That does lead you to repentance. That does lead you to grief when you sin against love like that but it's a clean grief. Fear can only elicit fear. Love elicits love. And if you have not been able to develop self-discipline, you're obeying out of fear at some level, somewhere, someplace. I don't know how. I don't know. But I can tell you that's the case. Because if you know him and you don't obey him, you really don't know him. See? If you say you know him, but you don't obey him, you don't really know him. This is unbelievable. Love growing obedience. That's the reason why this William Cowper, I've always quoted the last part of the hymn, but it's a very long hymn by a guy named William Cowper, wrote it 200 years ago, called Love Constraining Obedience. And he says it this way. He says, no strength of nature can suffice to serve the Lord aright, and what she has she misapplies for want of clearer light. How long beneath the law I lay, in bondage and distress, I toiled the precept to obey, but toiled without success. Then to abstain from outward sin was more than I could do. Now, when I feel sin's power within, I find I hate it too. What shall I do, was then the word, that I might worthier grow? What shall I render to the Lord, is my inquiry now, to see the law by and hear his pardoning voice, change as a slave into a child, and duty into choice. Let's pray. Our Father, thank you that you made it possible for us to know that your Son is not just our representative on the cross, but he's our representative before your throne right now. We pray that those of us who are dealing with guilt because we haven't understood the fullness of this doctrine might be able to deal with it. We pray that those of us who are dealing with discouragements difficulties in our lives because we fail to see the fullness of this doctrine might be able to now deal with it. We pray that people are struggling with a lack of self-control because they have not understood the fullness of this doctrine might now be able to deal with it. And we pray that you would show us how to apply this wonderful truth and do it with your Holy Spirit as we meet you over your table. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
