I would like to read to you from Genesis chapter 3, and I'm only going to read verses 1 through 9. During the month up to Easter, during the period of time that's often called Lent, the time of self-examination, of looking at ourselves, preparing ourselves for the celebration of Jesus' resurrection on Easter, we are going to, at least here at Redeemer, for four weeks in a row, look at this chapter. Let me just read from verses 1 through 9. Now the serpent was more crafty than any of the wild animals that the Lord God had made. He said to the woman, did God really say, you must not eat from any tree in the garden? The woman said to the serpent, we may eat fruit from the trees in the garden. But God did say, you must not eat fruit from the tree that is in the middle of the garden. And you must not touch it. Or you will die. You will not surely die. for God knows that when you eat of it, your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil. And when this woman saw that the fruit of the tree was good for food and pleasing to the eye and also desirable for gaining wisdom, she took some and ate it. She gave some to her husband, who was with her, and he ate it. And then the eyes of both of them were opened, and they realized they were naked. So they sewed fig leaves together and made coverings for themselves. And then the man and his wife heard the sound of the Lord God as he was walking in the garden in the cool of the day, and they hid from the Lord God among the trees of the garden. But the Lord God called to the man, saying, Where are you? This ends the reading of God's Word. Almost 20 years ago now, there was a very famous psychiatrist, Carl Menninger, right in the middle, right in the main street of the American psychiatric establishment, and he wrote a book called Whatever Became of Sin, and it shocked an awful lot of people. In it, he called the country to this, and I'm quoting, he called, quote, quote, for a revival of a conscious sense of guilt and repentance. In short, I call for a revival of sin. And what would be the good of that? Why do we need more breastbeaters? Shall we add depression to the already mentioned gloom and world uneasiness? Why not a no-fault theology? No one to blame. Things just happen, alas. Here's why. The assumption that there is sin in something Sin implies both a possibility for and an obligation to intervention. We want to help ourselves and others, and therefore, hence, sin is the only hopeful view. When evil appears around us and no one is responsible, no one is guilty, no moral questions are asked, then there is, in short, nothing to do. So we sink to despairing hopelessness. Therefore, the consequence of my proposal for a revival of guilt would not be more depression, but less. Carl Menninger, do you believe that? Best thing for you today would be a revival of guilt and repentance, he said. A few hundred years ago, another man, Martin Luther, decided the church had lost its soul. And of course, the church was the institution of the culture at the time. and he nailed a reform plan, he nailed a program for reform to the door of the Wittenberg Cathedral and at the very top of it said, all of life is repentance. Now Menninger, not, Menninger is a member of the Aspen Institute for Humanistic Psychology, not a bastion of Christian orthodoxy. And Luther, on the other hand, is a bastion of Christian orthodoxy. But both of them say the same thing to you today. thing for you. If you want joy and if you want hope. If you want to get out of your depression. If you want a life of greatness. The most important thing for you to do today. Is to get a deeper grasp. And understanding. Of the nature. And depth. Of your sinfulness. Now. Those two guys. Agree. On something. We better listen. To. Different places. To. Different. Views. To. Different. Societies. To. two different times. And of course, the reason we're talking about it today is not because Carl Menninger said it and not because Martin Luther said it even, but because the Bible here tells us that unless you understand sin, you will not understand yourself. What I'd like to do is take a look for four weeks at this passage. In doing that, of course, because we, on a Sunday, we gather and we have come from very different points of view and we have very different on many different things, it would be fascinating and even tempting to get even five minutes onto the subject of how do you regard the historicity of the incident of Adam and Eve. And I think for our purposes, all we've got to do is agree on something, that the point of the passage is to show us that what they did, we do. That this is a picture of our condition. This is showing us we do. Their condition is our condition. The dynamics operating in their hearts are operating in our hearts now. And as long as we understand that's the point, we can proceed without getting into that tangent for now, even though it's important and maybe some other time. This passage teaches us, first of all, that unless you understand the doctrine of sin and of original sin, of radical evil in the heart, you won't understand yourself. self. The philosopher Pascal put it this way, nothing offends us more rudely than this doctrine of original sin. Yet, without this mystery, the most incomprehensible of all, we are incomprehensible to ourselves. That's the first point. Genesis 1, 2, and 3, telling us how we've fallen into sin it's absolutely necessary to make sense of your life. That's the first thesis. That's what Pascal's saying. You see, think of it this way. We're all so unhappy so often. And if you're not unhappy today, that's wonderful. But you're surrounded with unhappy people. So, you know, even if you're not unhappy, you're an island in a sea of unhappiness no matter who you are. You're either the island surrounded by a sea of unhappiness or you're in the sea. And, you know, we're so surrounded by that struggle and constant disappointment with ourselves and constant disappointment with people that we never stop and ask ourselves, why in the world is it true? Do you realize one of the most difficult questions and one of the most impossible questions to explain from the average philosophical base that people have is why are we so unhappy? Look at the animals. You know, animal lovers and nature lovers show us horses do not seem to be unhappy that they're horses. be very well adjusted, extremely mature. Clams are perfectly happy with being clams. They never aspire to be anything other than what they are. But human beings are constantly unhappy. Never enough love, never enough joy, never enough achievement. What's the answer? Pascal again says in the most fascinating statement, he says, our unhappiness proves something. He says, so evident, it's even proved by our wretchedness. For who is unhappy at not being a king except a deposed king? The Bible says, for one brief shining moment, there was a Camelot. The Bible says the only way you're going to understand yourself is to realize that we all are conscious of having lost a glory, that we all were kings and queens, that there was a place and there was a time. Another way to put it, in Genesis 1, it says, then God said, let us make man in our image, in our likeness, and let them rule. We were kings made in God's image. That means, amongst many things, listen, it means we have a rational nature, a rational aspect, No. We have a personal aspect, so we have a hunger to love. We've got an eternal aspect, and there's a hunger to last. We want to last. You see the philosophical problem? Why are we so unhappy about dying? It makes no sense at all. Animals aren't unhappy about dying. When you see somebody going down into the grave, being lowered into the grave, why does it seem so unnatural? natural. If all we are is chemical, science would never tell you there was anything other than natural, yet not only do we not only feel it's not natural, we feel like it's wrong. See, we've got an eternal aspect, and we feel a need to last, to count. We've got a creative aspect, and we hunger for beauty. Where did all this come from? The Bible says, unless you see that we were kings and queens, that there's a glory that we've lost, and we've fallen, We had natures, because we were in the image of God, we had natures structured like a mirror. And we were built to reflect God's own rationality and personality and eternity and creativity. But when we decided to be our own gods and to trust ourselves instead of him, we violated our own nature just the way you violate the nature of an engine when you put honey mustard into it instead of gasoline. And therefore, you think about this for a minute. Only Genesis 1, 2, and 3 can really explain the paradox of what you are today and the paradox of what the human race is today. It refuses to be optimistic or pessimistic. You've got very pessimistic views of the human nature and existentialism. You've got very optimistic views in the old humanism and many other religions. But Christianity is neither and yet goes way beyond both. Christianity will not mitigate. mitigate. It will not mitigate our greatness by saying we're just animals that evolved with bigger frontal lobes. On the other hand, it will not mitigate evil. Many of us mitigate it. We just say, well, there are some evil people. There's some rotten people. Actually, most of them are sick. Hey, one of the worst things that came out of the trial of Adolf Eichmann, man, when I was a kid, when I was a youth, they found him and they took him to Israel. They went a monster, right? And they had psychiatrists studying him. And one of the most horrifying revelations out of the trial of Adolf Eichmann was that all the psychiatrists examined him up and down and came out and they said, he is perfectly sane. Evil is not just being sick. Christianity does not mitigate either our greatness. It says that we were kings and queens, Queens, reflections of God himself, Kamalot, see? We know it. And on the other hand, we are in the grip of radical evil. How else do you account for the fact that the human race produces heroes and death camp doctors? How else, except the Bible says you are both in yourself, that you are both a hero and a death camp doctor. You can be both. You've got the seeds for both. They're both in there. way to explain the paradox and the riddle of what you are and of how you are capable of unbelievable heroism and at the same time incapable of dastardly evil. The only way to explain why you want so much more than you seem to ever be able to get, where did those irrational urges come from? They're not irrational. They're perfectly logical. If you're a deposed king, it's the reason why we scramble over each other to try to get to the top. Because we know, as Pascal says, even our because who else is unhappy without being a king except a deposed king? Because I've been reading with my youngest, I've been rediscovering Lewis's Narnia Tales. And there's one place where Lucy, the little girl, gets into a magic book. And she reads in the magic book a story that's so wonderful. It's the most wonderful story she's ever read. It brings her a joy that she didn't think her heart was capable of. it makes her cry. You know, it gets to the roots of her. It lays bare the foundations of your existence. A great story. It was the greatest story. It was almost beautiful beyond bearing. And as soon as she turned the page on the book, even though she could remember how it affected her, she couldn't remember the story. She tried to turn it, but since it was a magic book, you couldn't turn back. And all the rest of her life, she was always trying to remember that story that she couldn't remember. That is your condition and my condition right now. Our problems, our itchiness, our cosmic itchiness, our greatness, our glory, and our dust and our wretchedness and our dirtiness. It all comes because there is a glory that we've lost. And not only can't we remember where it is, we can't even remember what it is. But here is the where and the what. This is what you've been trying to remember. lost, walking with God in the cool of the day, in the morning of the world, in the garden of God. That's why every human being feels, mine is the sunlight, mine is the morning, born of the one light Eden saw play. Ah, but it's gone. In the Narnia Tales, Lewis at one point says, you are descended from the Lord Adam and the Lady Eve, And that means that's enough to make the dirtiest beggar lift his head up, and it's enough to bow the shoulders of the greatest emperor on the earth. To know your greatness and your radical evil. It's incomprehensible. You will be a riddle to yourself unless you get it. I've seen it. I've seen it in people again and again. You start out life idealistic, arrogant, and then you're crushed into the ground. Unless you understand this, unless you understand the doctrine of original sin, you won't be able to be both confident and humble at the same time. Okay, now the second thing we learn. First, that only the doctrine of original sin explains us. But secondly, we learn not only does sin explain us, but we learn that sin deceives us. What's glorious about this doctrine. You see why Menninger says there's hope? Think about it. Everybody's got to have an explanation for evil. If you just believe that this world is all there is, if you believe that we are the chance evolution out of the slime, if you believe that we're nothing but chemicals, then evil is just simply intrinsic to the way things are. Survival of the fittest, you know? The law of the jungle. If you believe in some kind of life force being the basis for everything, then evil really isn't there. It's just part of the way things are. What's glorious about Genesis 1 and 3 is you can hate evil and even hate the evil in you without hating yourself. It's not native to you. It's not intrinsic to you. It's the enemy. And we've got hope that we can destroy it without destroying the essential you. And it's really the only explanation we've got that really enables you to hate evil without hating yourself. If you want to know your enemy, look. It's right here. And here's what we learn. Now, there's a lot of things we can learn actually spend four weeks on it, but here's the main thing I want to tell you today that we learn from this passage. The nature of sin, the essential nature of sin, is falsehood and lying. The essence of sin is a lie. Sin lies, and you're being taken over by evil to the degree that you participate. You believe. And you pass on the lies. The power of sin. Is not. Fang marks on the neck. But falsehood in the heart. You think of sin. As out here. You think of evil. As out here. But to the degree. That you believe. Lies. And to the degree. You participate. And breathe. And pass them along. To that degree. Evil's got power. Over you. And in you. I realized this. Some years ago. When I was talking. With a woman. I spent some time counseling with a woman. She had terrible problems. She had hated herself. It was largely because of the way in which her parents treated her. That's an old story. We know that story. But I suddenly realized here she was still locked into it. Still hurting other people. Because she. Felt so bad about herself. And yet. We had a tendency to talk about. Yes. What was the cause of the evil in her life. What's the cause of the evil. What's the cause of the evil in her. And the cause of the evil coming from her. And the answer is. What. parents? No. Her parents were dead. Her parents were gone. And I suddenly realized it was the things that her parents said that had passed into her heart. That's what was controlling her. That's what brought her into bondage. It really wasn't her parents ever anymore. In fact, even to start with, it wouldn't have been her parents if she hadn't believed what they said. Because we're in the image of God, it's our belief systems that run us. And as lies pass into us and as we believe them, evil takes us out and takes us over and uses us in the lives of other people for evil purposes. Sin is essentially lying. The power of sin is not falsehoods, is not fang marks on the neck, but falsehood's in the heart. That's the power of sin. That's the essence of it. Now, secondly, let me show you something else. Sin's lies always start very small. Where is the first lie? Is it in verse 4? A lot of people say, oh, the first lie is in verse 4. That's where the serpent says, you will not surely die. That's not true. The first lie is in verse 1. The serpent comes and says, Has God said you shall not eat of any tree of the garden? Now, the fact of the matter is that God had told Adam and Eve that they could not eat of one tree. The serpent exaggerates. The first lie is, Hey, I see here God has told you can't eat of any of the tree of the garden, any of the trees. That's an exaggeration. Sin will always try to get its lies into you at the emotional level. It will try to get falsehood into you through winks, through nods, through ha-ha-ha-ha. Most people I know who've lost their faith in Christianity have never been argued out of it at all. Most people who are raised up in the Christian church and have bagged it, I sit down with them and I find they've never studied it. They haven't read the Bible through two or three times. They've never read what had happened. They just heard people say, well, no educated person believes this anymore. nods, winks, insinuations, you see. Falsehood will always try to get in at the emotional level. It wants to avoid getting you to think. That would be the worst thing because thinking might lead to truth. Thinking tends to lead to truth. You know, reason tends to go in that direction, though it can be perverted. And so, you see, the first sin is not an outright lie. It never is. It's insinuation. It's hints. It's winks. It's nods. It's little statements that really don't come right out. And you know what's interesting is what is Eve's response to that first exaggeration? What the devil has immediately begun to say, what the serpent has immediately begun to say is, is, isn't God overbearing? Isn't he unreasonable? And she says, oh, no, no. We can eat of the trees of the garden, but we can't eat of that tree, nor touch it, lest ye die. You know what? God never says, go back through Genesis 1 and 2, God never says, don't touch it. What's already happened to her. To the insinuation. She's already begun in her own mind to exaggerate the difficulty of God's word. The first beginning of sin. The first step of sin is not disobedience. It's the resentment of obedience. The first step of sin is not obedience. It's resentful obedience. Because it's the beginning of the belief. Of the big lie. Now what is the big lie. The big lie that the serpent gives us. This is the one that has come into our nature. As I said, remember that woman who's still bothered all of her life, you know, at that level because she believed things her parents said to her? The Bible tells us that everybody in this room, that all of our problems and all of our misery is essentially caused by evil. Evil either coming from us our evil coming into us from someone else. And the root of evil the essence of evil is a lie. Falsehood. Believing falsehood. And this sin essence. The essential lie. Beneath all the lies. Is this. An assault. And a denial. Of the goodness. Of God. The thing that the serpent. Tries. To get. Us. To believe. And the thing. That. The serpent. Succeeded. In. Getting. Us. To. Believe. gnawing at the root of everybody's soul in this room, because it passed into us, and it will never completely go out until, we'll never completely get rid of it until Judgment Day. What went in there, because we believe it, because we want to believe it, is God doesn't really care. What does the serpent say? He comes to Adam and Eve and says, I've been watching you, and I've been very concerned about you, and this is the first chance I've had to speak to you alone. God is tyrannizing you. God is trying to keep you down. Now listen carefully, because you believe these words. You believe them utterly. You believe them deeply. God is trying to keep you down, he said. God doesn't want you to reach your potential. God knows that if you did this or this or this, you'd be happier. God knows if you did this or this or this, you'd be more powerful. That's why it says in verse 5, God knows, says the serpent, that if you did this and this and this, you'd be as gods. Don't you see what he's saying? Seize the day. Create yourself. Exert yourself. Assert yourself. You cannot submit to him utterly and totally and really be free. reach your potential. God doesn't care about you. He knows what you need, and he will keep you from it. And therefore, in the day you eat it, you shall not surely die. You'll really begin to live. Now, that lie I would like to show you is the lie beneath every other problem we've got. That the root problem you've got today is you do not believe God cares. The root problem you've got today is that you don't believe that God has your best interests in mind. Hey, let me give you examples just to show you, just show you how basic this is. Here's a person, here's a woman, and she was raised, let's say, in a Christian church, and she comes to New York. And as soon as she gets here, she says, finally, I've lived a narrow life. But finally, you see, times have changed. Only I can decide what's right for me. I think it's good to have Christian moral principles in a general way. But I know this, that if I'm completely and totally submitted If I'm completely bound by them, I'll never reach my potential. I'll never become an authentic person. I've got to seize the day. I've got to, you see, I've got to not cut myself off from any options. Only I can decide what's right. That's person number one. Then you have person number two. He comes to New York and he stays very, very religious. And he stays extremely moral. moral. But here's a person who is very moral, very straight, but always anxious. Always feeling guilty. Always feeling unworthy. Always feeling like I'm not good enough. A person with no self-confidence. A person with no self-esteem. They seem like 2 people. They're totally different. Right. Here's a person who's very ill religious. Here's a person who's super religious. Here's a person who just looks like she's overflowing with confidence. And here's a person with no confidence. Do you know what's at the bottom of both of them? Neither of them believe God loves them. When she says, well, you know, I'd like to have moral principles, but I can't be completely obedient to everything the Bible says. Sometimes it's unpractical. I can't cut myself from any options. What is she saying? If I obey God completely, I won't be happy. God knows what I need, but if I could give myself to him completely, I won't have it. Look at the person who's too religious. Religious in a sense. I've always feeling unworthy. What's his problem? I don't think God can forgive me after the things that I've done. It's the same problem. And here's a third, let me give you a third person, a third person who's suffering a tragedy, suffering a terrible affliction. And you know what? He can't take it. He's being overthrown by it. He's being demolished by it. He can't face it. Why not? Because one day he says, this isn't fair. Another day he says, well, maybe it is. Maybe I'm just a louse. Maybe I'm being punished. What do all three of those people have in common? Underneath the pride, underneath the anger, and underneath the sadness is a conviction. God doesn't care. God isn't good. There's an assault salt going on the morality of God in your heart. There was a character assassination that happened in the beginning of time, and it passed into us, and ever since, don't you see how different it is? Because that person who comes to New York and who says, I've got to be free, I've got to be me, I've got to be master of my fate and captain of my soul, I'll be bloody but unbowed, I have to seize the day, it's the only way to be free, that person in pride and arrogance who's going to make a lot of mistakes, is doing so, will not trust the Word of God, will not submit to the obedience of God because she doesn't believe he loves her. Because if she believed he loved her, she would be willing to submit. This guy here who's so depressed, full of self-esteem, doesn't believe God loves him either. This guy over here who can't face suffering is sure that if God really knew what he needed, God wouldn't be letting him suffer. But if he believed to the degree that he believes God cares. To the degree that he believed God cares. To the degree that she believed God cares. What would happen? Everything would be changed. Beneath the pride. Beneath the sadness. Beneath the anger. Beneath everything you've got. Beneath your bitterness. You don't believe that God really will give you what you need. Don't you see it? Don't you understand that's it? And to the degree that you're able to overcome that evil, to that degree you become a person who can be humble instead of proud, who can be confident instead of broken, and who can face anything. That's the secret. That's the problem. That's the issue. That's the big lie. It's a lie that usually gets in small ways. And many of you are very open about it, and you know it. You feel that way. monster. I believe God has abused me. Many others of you would never want to admit that you ever feel that way. The fact is that it's there. It's at the root. The big lie. God knows, but he won't let you reach your potential. He doesn't care. The sin beneath all the sins, God doesn't love me. The lie beneath all the lies, he doesn't care. Now, lastly, we've seen that only sin will explain who you are. We also see that sin deceives us and how it operates. But lastly, lastly, this text tells us that there's a solution for sin. We'll look more at it in the future, but we have to at least look at it. It comes at the very, very end of the passage I read, and it actually all hinges on one little word. Do you know how times in the Bible, this word comes in and signals hope. It's like a flare. We see that everything has gone wrong. We see that this terrible lie has come into our lives and now it's distorting the way we look at everything. And then it says in verse 9, but, but the Lord God came and called, called Where Are You? God went on a search. Now, do you know searches are extremely expensive? You know those skiers when they were found, those skiers out in Colorado that were lost, and they searched for them for a day or two, and then they were found? It was one of the more, from what I understand, one of the more callous city officials, after they were found, wanted to serve a bill to the skiers for $20,000, which is what it cost the town to do the search. It's interesting to see. Searches are very expensive. That's the reason eventually they have to cut them off. But what if your child is lost, and when they've stopped the search, you haven't found your child yet, what do you do? You keep looking. And it's so expensive. You may go days. You may go weeks. You may go months. Everything suffers. Everything. You don't make any money. Your career suffers. you do. Searches are tremendously expensive. And as a result, in verse 9, we see God willing to start the search. Where are you? Now, if searches here and now are expensive, how much more expensive was the cosmic search? What we see right here is an obliteration of the lie immediately. As soon as the serpent says, says, God doesn't care. We see the lie of the lie. Here God comes and says, where are you? Do you know what it actually cost him for his search? It cost him more than $20,000. What it really cost him is this. There's an old priest that put it this way. How do you heal evil? One old priest put it this way. He says, the only way to conquer evil is to let it be smothered by a willing,

When it's absorbed like a spear in the heart, it goes no further. Did you hear that? It says the only way to conquer evil is to take it in, is to absorb it. For example, how would you stop evil in the Balkans or in Palestine or in Northern Ireland? One side, after they're hit, does not pay back. You take the spear into the heart. You say, you hit me last. You killed me last. And I am not going to kill you back. The only way to stop evil is to smother it with a living, willing human being. If you see a person around this church. Who's just started to come into the church. And you look at that person. You see that person is a mess. That happens quite often around here. Somebody comes in. They're a mess. You can see them alienating people. You can see them turning people off. You can see that they're a bag of problems. And you can see that the only way to deal with evil in that person's life is to gasp. Become friendly to them. And as soon as you become friendly to them, you know what's going to happen. Lots of long talks. Lots of listening to them. Lots of trying to say, we've got to put some limits here now. We've talked an awful lot this week. And then the person accusing you of not being a good friend. You know what it's going to take? The only way to deal with evil is to smother it with a living, willing human being. the heart. Now, who will do that for us? The answer is right here. Your problems today, the reason you can't handle your suffering, the reason that you feel so guilty and worthless, or the reason that you're so proud and arrogant is because you don't believe God's good. This shows us that's a lie. What a God who sent his son into the world to be born, a God who was torn apart on the tree. Is that the way a God treats you who doesn't have your best interest in mind? It's madness. It's a delusion to believe that. Yet you do believe that. Somebody's thrown dust in your eyes. Somebody's thrown smoke in your eyes. And what it means to worship God is to rub your eyes. And what it means to actually grow in Christ is that you're willing to look at this and say, look, look at the brokenness. Look at all this. This shows me that what I believe in the roots of my being is a lie. And in a sense, Jesus Christ died once for all, and he smothered the evil as a living, willing being. He took the spear in the heart. That's the essential way that it's done. He did that at a cosmic level. But we still have the problem in our lives, don't we? And every time we come to the table, there's a sense in which Jesus Christ smothers the evil in us again. Every time we come to the table and admit that's our problem, you've got to be willing to admit it. You've got to be willing to say today, my misery is not because of the way in which this and that is happening. My problem today is I don't believe God loves me. I don't believe God is good, and therefore I don't have the resources to meet the fight. Oh, Lord, heal me of my mistrust. I repent. And the scripture tells us that when you take the Lord's Supper, it's your way of reminding yourself of his goodness. He smothers it again. He throws himself on it again. And you become, in a small but significant way, a person who can move out into the world. And in friendships, and in politics, and in government, and in business, you can become a person that smothers evil yourself. Are you ready to do that? Are you willing to admit that you're a sinner? Are you willing to see the nature of sin is not just disobeying the law, which is true, but it's to deny and to receive into the center of your being the lie that God doesn't really care. Abandon it. That's the real thing I want you to repent of now. I don't care what else you're doing. That's the thing you've got to repent of. Because if you can knock that pin down, all the other pins come. Let's pray. Now, Father, we ask that as we do receive the bread and the cup, that you would enable us to recognize our great evil, the great evil that's passed into us, the character assassin has left us poison, and there it sits. We would be free from it. We would be free from that pollution. We ask that you would show everyone in this room what it means to repent of our mistrust of you, what it means to make you our Savior and Lord afresh through the sacrament. this now in Jesus' name. Amen.