This is Exodus chapter 16 verses 2 through 5 and 27 through 35. In the desert, the whole community grumbled against Moses and Aaron. The Israelites said to them, If only we had died by the Lord's hand in Egypt. There we sat around pots of meat and ate all the food we wanted, but you have brought us out into this desert to starve this entire assembly to death. Then the Lord said to Moses, I will rain down bread from heaven for you. people are to go out each day and gather enough for that day. In this way I will test them and see whether they will follow my instructions. On the sixth day they are to prepare what they bring in, and that is to be twice as much as they gather in the other days. Nevertheless, some of the people went out on the seventh day to gather it, but they found none. Then the Lord said to Moses, How long will you refuse to keep my commands and my instructions? Bear in mind that the Lord has given you the Sabbath. That is why on the sixth day he gives you bread for two days. Everyone is to stay where he is on the seventh day. No one is to go out. So the people rested on the seventh day. The people of Israel called the bread manna. It was white like coriander seed and tasted like wafers made with honey. Moses said, this is what the Lord has commanded. Take an omer of manna and keep it for the generations to come so they can see the bread when I brought you out of Egypt. So Moses said to Aaron, take a jar and put an omer of manna in it, then place it before the Lord to be kept for the generations to come. As the Lord commanded Moses, Aaron put the manna in front of the testimony that it might be kept. The Israelites ate manna 40 years until they came to a land that was settled. They ate manna until they reached the border of Canaan. This is God's word. We're looking at the life of Moses in the book of Exodus, And one word that modern people, and especially New Yorkers, find opaque at best and offensive at worst is the word salvation. But we've also said that the book of Exodus pours rich, nuanced meaning into that word and helps us understand something about what Exodus and the Bible means by salvation. And in the book of Exodus, we learn that salvation is liberation. Salvation is how God intervenes in our life to liberate us from the things that would enslave us and kill us. Salvation is God's liberating activity in our lives because if you build your life on, if you build your identity on anything, rather than God, more than God, it becomes something that enslaves you. God intervenes to liberate us. And boy, that sounds great. But what does that mean practically? What does it actually mean to how does that liberating activity it sounds wonderful in concept but how does it actually work out into my life? How does it work out into our lives? How do we actually in our day-to-day life how does it affect us? How do we really live free? New Hampshire says live free or die. So how do we do that? It's on every license plate. how do we do that? What does Exodus mean by that? How do you actually get God's liberating work out into your practical life? And if you want to understand that, you can do no better than look at this famous passage about God feeding the people with manna in the desert. There's three things that we learn in the book in this passage. We learn about a process, we learn about a provision, and we learn about God's patience. We learn about the process of God, the provision of God, and the patience of God. And when we look at those three things, you'll understand how God's liberating work works out in our lives. Now, first of all, the process. What do I mean by that? Verse 2 says, the children of Israel are in the desert. The desert is a place where it's a wilderness. When the Bible used the word wilderness, it's thinking of the desert. It's a place where biological life can't be sustained, where human life can't be sustained. Why are they in the desert? And the answer is, God's led them there. See, if you put this in context, you remember that from the time they left Egypt, there was a pillar of cloud. God was actually appearing before the children of Israel and leading them. And so they were going place to place to place because God was taking them there. That's why they were going. And so we are confronted with a striking fact. The reason that they're in a place where there's no food, or next week in chapter 17, the reason that they're in a place where there's no water. The reason that they're in all these awful places, hard places, difficult places, dangerous places, uncomfortable places, is God led them there. It was part of his plan for them. It was part of the journey he was taking them on. And we're struck by the fact that even though they had been taken out of a land of slavery, instead of going right to a promised land of milk and honey, they spent 40 years wandering around in a wilderness. Why would that be? Now, the answer to that question begins to emerge when we look at verse 3. In verse 3, we see the grateful children of Israel remembering how God has, with great and mighty acts, led them out of terrible bondage and slavery. And what they say basically in verse 3 is, we had it better in Egypt. It was better back there. We had a lot of food back there. We don't have any food down here. Now, what you see in this verse 3, very important, it is the language of addiction. It's the language of denial. When they were actually in Egypt, when they were actually under the lash, they hated it. They cried out against it. They were miserable. And now they're out of there. And yet you see, when they think back about Egypt, they remember it fondly. They think of it as something good. They think of it as something desirable. They think of it as something they wouldn't mind going back to. And that is the language of addiction in that they're still addicted. When you think back into your addiction, when you think back into that situation with the delusional thinking that screens out all the misery and says, that really wasn't so bad, even though they were technically out of slavery in their heart internally in their spirit they were still slaves and this leads us to a principle you can get people out of slavery in an instant it happens like that they crossed the Red Sea they leave you know it's it's a legal thing it's a political thing it's a military thing you can get people out of slavery in an instant but you can't get the slavery out of people except through a long process you see you can quickly, immediately, but you can't get the slavery out of the people quickly. And it takes a process. And though legally they were free, actually they hadn't learned how to be and think and work out their liberation into their lives. And that's the reason why they don't go right to the promised land. And Moses knows that because years later, just before Moses dies in the book of Deuteronomy, just, you know, they've gone through the wilderness for 40 years and they're on the border. Moses dies, he speaks to the children of Israel in the book of Deuteronomy, and he reflects on the meaning of the wilderness wanderings. Exodus makes no sense if you don't read Deuteronomy. And in Deuteronomy 8, Moses says this. He says, remember how God, the Lord your God, has led you all the way in the desert these 40 years to humble you, to test you, in order to know what was in your heart. In other words, Moses looks back and says, the reason that you were in the wilderness was because you didn't know your own heart you still didn't know who you were you see in other words the purpose of god in the wilderness was not rapid transportation it was education it was counseling it was training and that's the reason why moses says the reason why you didn't immediately go to canaan was even though you can get the uh you can get the people out of slavery in an instant but you can't get slavery out of the people except through a long process. Now let me give you an example. It's a kind of classic example. Imagine a man who's had parents who are absolutely impossible to please. You could never please them. They're always critical. They're always dissatisfied. You could never please them. And so the man grows up with the kind of textbook results, the psychological textbook results. Let's just say he's a person who grows up and he lacks a lot of confidence. He maybe overworks. He doesn't like, he's scared of making commitments in relationships because he actually doesn't trust himself and so forth. But then one day, he comes across the gospel. The gospel, which is the essential message of Christianity. And when you get into the gospel, you discover a God different from the God of any other religion. Because in every other religion, the God of all other religions always says give me a good record, obey me, and I will accept you. I'll bless you, you'll be enlightened, or whatever. Every religion is different. But basically, the deity in every religion says, give me a good record and I will bless you. But in Christianity, it's diametrically opposite. The God of our Lord Jesus Christ says, I give you a good record. I give you a perfect record. Because Jesus Christ lived the life you should have lived, died the death you should have died, when you believe in him, in Christ, in the gospel, you are my beloved child in whom I am totally pleased. Now there's something the man never heard in his whole life. A father saying with you, I am absolutely well pleased. And you know what? He rests in that. He's excited by that. He accepts that. He believes in that on Monday. And of course, by Wednesday, as we know, this happens to all people who believe in the gospel on Monday, by Wednesday, no more problems with confidence, no more problems with relationships, no more problems at work, right? It's all fine now, right? Of course not. Because though he is liberated, pardon, forgiveness, in that sense, the liberation can happen in a zip. And it's done. You can take the person out of slavery in a zap, in a moment, but you can't take the slavery out of the person. And the liberation he knows in principle in his head is not yet worked out into his life in the way he actually feels, in the way he actually reacts, in the way he actually lives. That has to happen through a process. And you know when it's going to happen? You know when that process happens? It happens when there's trouble. It happens when things go wrong. It happens when he does something wrong, when somebody does something wrong to him, and it's in wilderness training. It's in the challenges, it's in the troubles, it's in the problems of our life, it's in the sufferings of our life that we actually access in our hearts what we know with our heads, where we actually work out something in principle into actuality, where we actually take hold of the things that we believe and know say, if this is true, then I should be acting like this. I should be looking like this. I should be living like this. And therefore, the simple fact is you can be zapped, you might say, legally into freedom. You can be pardoned. You can be forgiven. You can be liberated in all those kinds of ways. But it's only through a long and arduous process. And largely in the troubles of our life, the wilderness experience of our life, the dry periods, the difficult periods of our life, that the liberation in principle becomes something that actually works out into our life and practice. Did you see that? You say to God, oh Lord, make me joyful, make me a joyful person, make me a happy person, make me a loving person. But how does that happen? Paul says in 2 Corinthians, he says, he says, this present suffering is preparing for us an eternal weight of glory. What does that mean? I'll bet you if you just read it kind of quickly without thinking about it, you think he's talking something about a future heavenly reward, but it's more than that. He says, no suffering, no glory. You know what glory means literally? The Greek word kabodh and the Hebrew word kabodh and the Greek word doxa. You know what the word literally means? It means weight. It means substance. and here's what he means. And let me consult your personal experience. Common sense, not even the Bible here. Do you know people? And everybody knows people. But I mean a certain kind of people. Do you know people who've had what we might call a charmed life? I mean, it's possible to have virtually everything go right in your life for at least until you're three. No, actually, into your 20s, into your 30s, that it's pretty hard. But I mean, it's possible to have, to just be born into great looks, into affluence, into connections. It's possibly born when everything goes right. Everything is just fine. Everything's falling into place. And if you know anybody like that, of course it's a temporary condition, but if you know anybody like that, you know that they're shallow. They're not people of substance. They're not people of depth. They're not people of glory. They're not people of stability. They're not people of weightiness. There's a weightlessness about them. There's a superficiality about them. What do I mean? Well, I mean, you know. No suffering, no glory. Number one, they really aren't very good in relationships because they can't sympathize with you. They don't understand how other people feel. If you have a problem, they're either indifferent to it or they kind of judge you. Secondly, in their thinking, Intellectually, they tend to be superficial. They don't have much in the way of insights about how life works. And then, of course, if anything really goes wrong, they freak out. They don't know what to do. And Paul is saying you want to be a happy person no matter what the circumstances? Do you want to be a strong person? Do you want to be a sensitive person? Do you want to be a deep person? Do you want to be a wise person? Do you want to be a person of substance, stability, and depth? This only happens through wilderness training. It happens when there's hardship. It happens to the hard things. It almost happens to the difficult things. And oh, this is bad news. I mean, I got to move on to this next point here, but this is bad news for modern Western people. You know why? We like technique. We like technology. We like pills. We like things that do things to us. So what we say is, Lord, make me happy. Make me strong. Make me loving. Make me wise. And I'll I'll lay down right here and then do it to me. You know, and when the treatment is done, whatever you do, injections, you know, ray gun, whatever you do, you just tell me when it's done because I'd like to go home. And God says, you don't zap anyone into liberation. You don't zap anyone into character. You don't zap people. You invite into a process, a painful process, an arduous process, a long process, but a process in which you are not an object, you're a person. You're someone who has got to cooperate. You're someone who has got to participate in a personal process. Therefore, God becomes a God of process. Now, real quickly, I've got to say one quick thing. When people say, Are you trying to tell me that God is the author of the terrible things that happen in my life or that happen in the lives of other people? And I have to briefly say something to give you a biblically balanced answer. When God made the world, you can read about it in Genesis 1. He made the sun, the moon, the stars. He made a lot of things. He made the ocean. He made the vegetation. He made the plants. He made the animals. The one thing I noticed in Genesis 1 he didn't make was he didn't make any deserts. he didn't say now over there I want to have a desert where it's howling and wilderness and it's burning up and everything dies you know he didn't do that he didn't make wildernesses disease and suffering and evil and disaster and poverty and war these things were not part of the blueprint and when you see Jesus Christ standing at the tomb of his friend Lazarus his dead friend Lazarus and you see him angry, you know that the Lord of the Bible is as angry and as intolerant and as unhappy with the evil and suffering in this world as you and me. But at the tomb in John chapter 11, we also see Jesus Christ in his timing and in his actions using that tragedy for great and glorious purposes. If you want to feel good tonight, go to Isaiah 35 and read about that when the Lord comes back, there will be streams in the desert. The desert will blossom and run with life. He's going to get rid of all the deserts. But until then, if you live in this world, and everybody, including Jesus Christ himself, who lives in this world, is going to have the brokenness come into their life. But if you go to God and you have a relationship with him, here's the promise. He weaves those things. He weaves the brokenness and the troubles and the difficulties of life. He regulates, as it were, the size of them, the character of them, the order of them, the timing of them, so that if you respond to them in faith, they'll make you into something glorious and great. Now that leads us to our second point. Because God doesn't leave you to your own devices in the wilderness. He provides bread and tells you how to get it. He provides bread so you won't die in the wilderness, but he tells you how to get it because even though he provides it, you can still die if you don't know how to get it. Now take a look at something here quickly. One of the things we notice is that we have in the desert something happening which shouldn't happen. You're not supposed to have bread in the desert. On the other hand, in the Nile River Valley, we had something happen that shouldn't have happened either. See, in the Nile River Valley, because of the plagues, That fertile, fertile place where there should have been food, there wasn't. But here in the desert, that barren, barren place where there shouldn't be food, there is. Which is an interesting way for the Bible, it's a vivid, wonderful way for the Bible to say this. The very best circumstances without God, everything going right in your life, the very most favorable best circumstances without God is actually a place of death. and the very worst circumstances with the presence of God can be a place of sweetness because the manna was sweet and sustenance and strength and growth, but it doesn't happen automatically, now does it? You notice they had to go get the manna. They had to gather the manna. There were rules. They couldn't gather it on Sabbath because that day they had to remember who was giving them the manna. They had to go out every day. They had to distribute it equally. We'll get to that later. And so on. In other words, there are rules. You know, I don't know why God didn't do that. Why didn't he go all the way with the miracle? You know, the manna was a miracle. Why didn't he go all the way? Why didn't he just put it in his stomach? You know, I was thinking about this the other day. It wouldn't have been interesting. You'd wake up in the morning, and you'd say, I'm really hungry, and oh, there it is. I mean, you know, it's a miracle for it to appear out on the ground. Why couldn't it just appear in the stomach? And the answer is, the first stroke of liberation was a gift they received almost passively. They did nothing to get liberated from Egypt. Nothing. I mean, walk through the Red Sea. All right. I mean, it wasn't much to do. You know, they were virtually passive. They received the original gift of liberation. But in the process of working it into their lives, they must be active participants. You have to go get the manna. There's rules. There's instruction. The sustenance and the sweetness that God gives you in the wilderness times of your life, you have to go get. And here's how you get it. The strength of God that he will give you in the time of wilderness so that it will make you a better person, not a worse person. As we all know, suffering and trials can make you a strong person, a sensitive person, they can also make you a bitter person, an angry person, and a broken person. In other words, when troubles come, they're going to make you much better than you were or much worse than you were. You know that. Right now, if you're in the midst of a trouble, if you're in the midst of a wilderness experience, you will not stay where you are. In terms of character, in terms of depth, in terms of wisdom, in terms of ability to love people, you are on your way up or down. You will not stay where you are. It's either going to make you or it's going to break you. In the wilderness, you've got to go get the strength. In the wilderness, you've got to go get the sweetness. Otherwise, you'll die in the wilderness. And what is that strength? It comes to us three ways. Recognize that God's strength in the wilderness, his manna in the wilderness, its thoughtful strength, its relational strength, and its communal strength. Now, what do I mean by that? Its thoughtful strength. Moses in Deuteronomy 8 says this about the manna. He says, God humbled you and caused you to hunger and fed you with manna in order to teach you that man does not live on bread alone, but on every word that comes from the mouth of the Lord. Deuteronomy 8. That's Moses says, here's what Moses is saying. He says, in the physical wilderness, manna was the physical sustenance that God gave. But it points to the fact that in the personal wilderness, the spiritual wilderness, the emotional wilderness, the sort of wilderness that people in this room are going through now or will go through soon, the manna points to the spiritual strength which comes to us through what? What did Moses say the manna represents? Every word that comes from the mouth of the Lord. Now what that means is you have to learn to turn truth into bread. In the wilderness times, that's the time to turn truth into bread. See, what is every word that comes from the mouth of the Lord? The Bible, you know, the scripture, the words of the prophets, the apostles, and so on. You may believe it. It's cognitive truth. It's truth you subscribe to. But Moses says in the times of the wilderness, you've got to turn it into food. You've got to chew it. You've got to digest it. You've got to work it into your system. You've got to taste it. In other words, you've got to think. That's why we call it thoughtful strength. God's strength in the times of wilderness is a thinking strength. It's not a stupid strength. And this is ironic. Some years ago I was talking to a, I had several meetings with a young psychiatrist. He was in New York. He was brilliant. He was good. We became good friends. He didn't believe in God. He didn't, not only did he not believe in God, but he had a very secular worldview. He believed that all that existed was matter. He believed that everything that happened was, obviously, since there's no God, it was a kind of random chemical reaction without any purpose. And everything that we are is just sort of a very complex organism that has developed by chance through natural selection. And one day, and I wouldn't have asked these questions unless we were already pretty good friends. I said, well, let me ask you a couple of pretty poignant questions. In your worldview, isn't love nothing but a chemical reaction? Love's an illusion. It's really just something that you're programmed to feel towards certain individuals in order to pass along your genetic code. And it has the aura of significance, but basically it's insignificant. It's just a chemical reaction. He says, no, I know that's right. And I said, look, you're also concerned about civil rights, I know. But really, if this world is all there is, and we're just, you know, just kind of complex, you know, germs, very, very, very complex germs, but basically germs, you know, on what basis do you say it merely matters which germs are excluded? And when you talk about right and wrong and justice and injustice, surely you know that's a fiction. Surely you know that if you feel certain things are right and other things are wrong, that's just because your evolutionary biology has programmed you to feel those things are right and wrong. So you survived. But actually, it's a construction. It's all relative. It makes no difference in the end. He says, I agree. There is no right or wrong. There is no fundamental difference between charity and violence. I said, well, how do you live your daily life if you think out the implications of your worldview for daily life? How do you live your daily life? And he says, well, that's the point. He said, I have a number of friends who believe what I believe, but the way they get peace and strength is they refuse to think out the implications of the worldview for daily life. And I have trouble not doing that, so I get pretty discouraged, and it hit me. There are people, plenty of people, especially in New York, who only get peace and strength by refusing to think out the implications of their worldview for daily life. But Moses is actually saying That when it comes to God, you only get strength as you think out the implications of your worldview. He says what you're supposed to do in times of trouble, in times of wilderness, you're supposed to take the truth, every word that proceeds from the mouth of God, you're supposed to take the truth, and you're supposed to digest it. You're supposed to think it out. Moses is actually saying if you're despondent, if you're falling apart, it's you're not thinking. You're adopted. You're accepted. You are the delight of the only one in the universe whose opinion counts. And if everything in the Bible is true, if every word in the mouth of God is true, but not just something you believe, but you're thinking it out, and you're digesting it, and you're working it in, then you'll know this, that the greatest evils and the darkest shadows are just a passing thing. Temporary, tiny, there's light and high beauty forever beyond their reach, and you're part of it, and you're going to be part of it. Now, what are we doing? What have I just done? I'm saying, taste this. Think this out. Here's what's the great irony. The great irony is that there's people who the only way they can get strength through their daily life is not to think out the implications of their view of the world. And for Christians the only way that you can handle the wilderness is to do more thinking, to intensely think, to digest, to think out, to taste, to work in what you know, what you believe. In fact your lack of joy or your lack of certain certitude or your lack of poise, think yourself into poise. Think yourself into, and I don't mean just say be strong, be strong, be strong, be strong. You think every word that comes from the word of the Lord. So the first thing you have is thoughtful strength. Let me just tell you, in the middle of the summer, I was reading the Psalms, and I came across a verse that I've heard many, many times, because actually every month I read it. And it's a place where it says, no good thing will he withhold from those who he loves. No good thing will he withhold from those he loves. And I began, not just, of course, I believe that, but I hadn't really thought about it, so I began to think, I began to meditate, I began to chew, I began to taste it, and I said, no, wait a minute, on the one hand, this might, well, what would that mean? It means either that right now, anything he's withholding from me, I might think of as good, but it's not good for me. Or maybe it means that eventually every possible good thing there is, every possible joy, every possible blessing, every possible delight, every possible good thing there is, not only the things that I can imagine, the things I can't imagine will come into my heart. Or maybe I said maybe both of them. Maybe it means both. Maybe it means nothing is needful that he withholds, and everything is needful that he sends. Or maybe it means that someday I'm going to get it all, but you know what? That became incredibly sweet. I couldn't go by an hour without thinking about it. And every time I thought about it, it was manna. It was sweet. It was sustaining. It helped me think it helped me feel it work the liberation under my life thoughtful strength that's the first way you get manna in the wilderness second way it's relational strength notice of the manna that comes every day why do you have to go out every day it's not kind of silly it's a miracle why couldn't you give it to you once a week why couldn't you give it to you once a month why do I have to go out and do it all the time Jesus Christ was thinking almost certainly about the manna story when he told us how to pray. And he said, give us this day our daily bread. What Jesus is saying is, in prayer, you need a moment-by-moment dependent relationship with God. Now, here's how I could put this. Imagine you're out driving around and you're hopelessly lost. And you find somebody and you put down the window and you say, say, I'm trying to get to there. Could you tell me how to get to this place? And the guy says, you have no idea how lost you are. You have no idea how hard it's going to be to get there from here. It's so complicated, I don't even know how to even begin to tell you. And if I told you, you'd forget it. And he says, oh, I got it. So he gets in the car and he says, I'll take you there. In other words, he's saying the remedy for your lostness is not a piece of abstract information. You need a moment-by-moment relationship with the only one who knows. Now, when we get into wilderness experiences, almost always we think we need some kind of abstract information or abstract electrification. In other words, we say, Lord, I had a terrible day today. I was irritable with people. I lost it. I was weeping. Tomorrow, just zap me so it won't be so bad. So I'll just feel stronger, have more fortitude, have more peace. Just give it to me. Okay? But what you need in a wilderness experience, a wilderness, a desert is a place where your other sources of significance and security dry up. And what you need in a wilderness is not to go to God simply for your needs, but to go to God as the thing you need. Do you know the difference? You never know how incredibly wonderful, how clear, how deep, how cool, how sustaining, and how delicious the water from his well is till your other brooks dry up and you're forced to go to his well. You don't realize that God is all you need until God is all you have. You don't realize god is all you need until god is all you have

And see that's the key the what the thing that makes a wilderness experience a wilderness experience is certain things that are your hope and are your safety things that you really rely on they're threatened or maybe they're being taken away and you go to say god give him back and maybe he will i hope he will it's all right to go and say give him back but you should not lose the point. You should not lose the point of getting the manna. The secret of manna in the wilderness is to go get a relationship. Not to go to God simply for what you need, but to go to God as what you need, the main thing you need. You never know God is all you need until God is all you have. There's a great hymn that means a lot to me that goes, I ask the Lord that I would grow in faith and love in every grace, might more of his salvation know and seek more earnestly his face. I thought that in some favored hour at once he'd grant my request zap and by his love constraining power subdue my sins and give me rest instead of this he made me feel the hidden evils of my heart he let the angry powers of hell assault my soul in every part lord why is this I trembling cried will you pursue me to the death it is in this way the lord replied I answer prayers for grace and faith. These inward trials I employ from pride and self to set thee free and break thy schemes of earthly joy that thou mayst find thine all in me. So first of all, it's a thoughtful strength. Get it? That's the second way to get the manna in the wilderness. Secondly, you see, it's relational strength. And lastly, it's communal strength. There's something very interesting about the instructions that God, that Moses, God through Moses, gave the children of Israel about how they gathered the manna. It's not in the passage we read, but here's what it says. In Exodus 16, 14, Moses said, this is what the Lord commands. Each one is to gather only as much as he needs, an omer for every individual in your tent. So the Israelites did as they were told. Some gathered much, some little. And when they measured it by the Omer, he who gathered much did not have too much and he who gathered little did not have too little. Each one gathered exactly as much as he needed. That's very interesting. See, you know what it's saying? Some of the people who went out in the morning to gather were 6'4 with very big hands. And some people who went out to gather were 4'6 with very little hands. And so it's only natural that when they came back they had different amounts. But God said, look, you don't just go out and gather it and then go to your tent. It's not for me to you. You go and gather it and you bring it together and then you measure it out. So the person with five people in the tent get five omers. I don't know what an omer is either, but the point is. And the people with four people in the tent get four omers. It's very simple. In other words, though it was gathered by individuals, it was distributed through the community. Interesting. I'll tell you how interesting it is. I said that you get the manna through thinking. You get the manna through the relationship. Moment by moment existential relationship. The third thing is you get the manna through relationships. You get the manna through community. I'll tell you what some people do. This happens all the time. It happens all the time in New York. Somebody comes to Redeemer and says, wow, I'm learning some things at Redeemer that I think are going to help me for my life. They're helping me analyze myself, figure out my life better. They're giving me some hope. They're giving me a sense of hope. So what you do is every Sunday you come and you get it and you write it down, you take it home and you think about it and then you come back on Sunday. But you're busy. You don't want to get to know anybody. Besides that, you're a New Yorker and you don't want anybody nosing into your life. You don't want accountability. You're a private person. Your faith is a private thing. You don't like talking about it. You're going to starve in the wilderness. Because see, the manna is distributed through the community. And one of the things that I have people complaining sometimes to me, saying, well, you know, you said something really good in the sermon, but I need the details. How do I actually work that out? You work, you know how you fight, you know how you apply it, you know how you work it out? You get together with people who are on the same journey and you talk about it. And you beat it into each other's heads and you accept each other when you fall down and you support each other and on the other hand, you admonish each other and you work it in and you think it out and you work it. That's how it happens. You're going to die in the wilderness unless you're willing to get involved in deep community. You just can't do it and be an individual. Okay, now last. There's one more thing you've got to know. It's a process. We wish it wasn't, but there it is. But in that process of just living in this world, so inevitably you're going to have wilderness experiences. This world is a wilderness. Life is a wilderness to a great degree. There's drier places than others. But in that wilderness, God gives you a provision. Even the worst circumstances can be a place of sweetness and growth and sustenance. You have to get it, though, and we've talked about how you get it through the thoughtful strength, it's relational strength, it's communal strength. But there's one more thing you've got to know. And here's why you have to know it. Let me put it like this. There's a very odd thing that happens in this passage, and that is that God says, I'm giving you this manna, but it's a test. You see that? In verse four, I will rain down bread from heaven for you. The people are to go out each day and gather enough for this day, but it's a test. I will test them to see whether they will follow my instructions. And on the sixth day, they're to prepare what they bring in, okay, which is to be twice as much as they gather in other days. Now look at verse 27, right below it. Nevertheless, some of the people went out on the seventh day to gather it. They failed the test. They always do. They failed the test. And so what is the response? Well, it's very simple. You go to Columbia University, you only get in if you pass the test, right? I mean, you have to have high SAT scores. And then you continually take every year, I mean, every week they give you tests to try to get rid of you. Because if you start to get Fs, you know? In other words, the purpose of educational tests is to qualify you or disqualify you, one or the other. If you pass the test, you're defined. Very, very simple. What's the matter with this God? Because you see, he says it's a test, and then they fail the test, and what do we see? Verse 35, and the Israelites ate manna 40 years until they came to a land that was settled. They ate manna until they reached the border of Canaan. What kind of test is this? He gives them a test, they fail the test, and he patiently, lovingly, patiently, lovingly, over and over and over again throughout their entire 40 years continues over and over to say, let's try tomorrow again. Now, you know why? Moses knew why. Moses says in the book of Deuteronomy, again, thinking back and looking at the time in the wilderness, he says, know then in your heart that as a father disciplines his son, so the Lord your God disciplines you. In the desert, you saw how the Lord your God carried you, as a father carries his son all the way until you reached this place. You see, a father tests too. I mean, for example, imagine a father who takes his little boy, say, well, maybe 11 or 12, maybe, and they go off into a cabin in the wintertime, and he says, now, son, I'm going to teach you something about splitting wood and feeding the fire and something about, you know, fishing and ice fishing. I'm going to teach you this. I'm going to show you how to split the wood and how to stoke the fire. So in the morning when you get up, you put wood in the fire so we have a nice warm stove and the cabin will be warm. And his father gets up the next day and he says, it's cold. What happened? And the son says, oh, I didn't want to do it. I didn't get to it. In fact, I was wondering. I didn't know why I had to do it because I figured we wouldn't freeze if I didn't do it. You were going to do it anyway. And what does the father say? He says, son, I wanted to teach you. I wanted you to grow up. I didn't want you to be a little kid. I didn't want you to be a helpless little kid that is dependent. I wanted you to become an adult. I wanted you to become mature. That's why we're doing it. And so tomorrow, we're going to try it again. Because a father's tests are different than a professor's tests. The father doesn't test to qualify the child. And when the child fails, it doesn't disqualify the child. In fact, the more your child fails, the more your heart as a father or mother goes out to the kid. and that is the status that the children of Israel have. In the wilderness, when bad things happen, it is not a tit-for-tat punishment. Fathers definitely discipline. Maybe the father would actually say to the child, honey, because you did that wrong, you disobeyed me, so here's the punishment. But it's not a retributive punishment. It's not the way, it's not like if you rob the bank, you go to jail, which is simply a tit-for-tat, you know, it's a retribution. The father brings pain sometimes into the child's life, but only enough pain so that they're not going to be disobedient, they're not going to lie, they're not going to cheat, so that to avoid greater pain later. In the wilderness, Moses said, you have never, ever, A, gotten what you deserve. The bad things that happen have never been retribution kind of punishment. But God has trying to grow you, trying to change you. And no matter how often you failed, he continued to work with you. Now, let me tell you why that is something you've got to know. I see over the years people getting completely destroyed by the troubles in their life. And here's why. There's a premise underneath our lives. It's so deep and it's so that we don't even realize it's there. And the premise is this. If I live right, my life should go right. So if your life goes wrong, you either say, number one, something's wrong with me. I hate myself because I must be a failure. The other possibility is I hate him because he's not treating me as I deserve and I hate him. And I want you to know that if the premise is true, If I live right, then my life will go right. Every wilderness experience is either going to lead you into self-hatred or God-hatred. And if that becomes a sustained theme in your life, or maybe both, it will poison your life and you will die out there in the wilderness. Something has to destroy the premise. And there's only one thing that will destroy the premise. Jesus Christ was a perfect man. And one day, God actually said so, and the Holy Spirit descended from heaven, and out of heaven, God said, this is my beloved Son in whom I'm well pleased. And the Spirit descended on him. He was a man anointed with the Spirit. He was perfectly loving. He was perfectly godly. He was perfectly good. And the first thing that happened to him was what? He went into the wilderness. The Spirit led him into the wilderness where he was tested, and he was tried, but he was perfect.

Why? He did it for us. He was living the life we should have lived. And years later, on the cross, when he says, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? The only time in his entire life that he doesn't call God Father. The only time. Why? Because on the cross, he was losing his sonship. He was losing his relationship with his Father. Why? He gets the punishment we should deserve, we deserve, he loses the sonship so we can have it, so we can become sons and daughters. And John chapter 1, 12 talks about it. To all who received him, who believed in his name, he gave right to become children of God. Right, you see. We're adopted, we're accepted. Now, if you don't believe that, if you don't know that, if you don't know because Jesus Christ lived the life you should have lived, you know, completely obeying in the wilderness, have died, losing his sonship, so that when you disobey in the wilderness, you can still get bread. And when you disobey in the wilderness, God will still treat you as children. And unless you know that, that premise stays intact. But the premise is wrong. Jesus was the very best person who ever lived, and he didn't have a good life. You can't live in this world without having troubles. But here's the important thing. Because Jesus Christ has lived the life you died that you should have died. When you believe in him, God now relates you as a father and the wilderness issues, the troubles in your life are neither necessarily because you have failed, nor certainly because he has failed. He's treating you as a child. You have to do something with that premise.
