This morning's reading comes from John chapter 15 verses 22 to 27.

If I had not come and spoken to them, they would not be guilty of sin, but now they have no excuse for their sin. Whoever hates me hates my Father as well. If I had not done among them the works no one else did, they would not be guilty of sin. As it is, they have seen, and yet they have hated both me and my Father. But this is to fulfill what is written in their law. They hated me without reason. When the Advocate comes, whom I will send to you from the Father, the Spirit of truth who goes out from the Father, He will testify about me. And you also must testify. testify, for you have been with me from the beginning. This is the word of the Lord.

So these chapters that we're looking at this year, sometimes called the upper room discourse, when Jesus, the night before he was about to be killed, met with his disciples in the upper room and trained them and got them ready to be sent out into the world. And we are getting trained sent out into the world by studying this material. Last week, Jesus started, and therefore we started, this subject, the topic of why the world in all of its forms and all the cultures through all the centuries has, in one degree or another, been hostile to Christianity. And Jesus last week said to us that they will be hostile to you because you're connected to me. He gave a number of other reasons, but in this particular passage, especially verses 22 to 25, he goes into more detail about why the world is hostile to him. And then in verses 26 to 27, he says, but in spite of that hostility, God has two witnesses. He sent two witnesses to testify to the truth. So let's first what it is that makes the world hostile to Jesus, according to Jesus. And then secondly, who those two witnesses are. The hostility is described here in verse 22 to 25. Let me read it to you again and then summarize it. He says, if I had not come and spoken, they would not be guilty of sin. Whoever hates me hates my father as well. If I had not done among them the works, no one else did, they would not be guilty. As it is, they have seen both me and my father. This is to fulfill what's written in their law. They hated me without reason. Now, if you look and distill what Jesus is saying, he is saying when he speaks to us, his words, those words elicit hostility. When they're backed up with his works, in verse 23, which is a word in the book of John that means miracles, it gets worse. In other words, Jesus says, he says, He says, when I speak, there's hostility. My miracles make it even harder to ignore my words, which makes my words even more infuriating. And basically, he's saying the reason why the world hates me is because of my teaching, my words. Now, that's not the only reason. We've looked at some of the other ones, and we will look at some of the other ones. But it's intriguing for Jesus to say here that my teaching makes people angry. angry. Some years ago, I read an article, and I've occasionally referred to it and written about it, and getting ready for this sermon, I thought I'd go back and find that article and reread it because I think it's about the best example of what Jesus is talking about that I know. And I did find the article, and I got a little more information than I had remembered before, but a woman named Virginia Stem Owens was teaching English at a major Texas university in 1987. And she says, and I keep this in mind, this is 30 years ago. This is the middle of the Bible Belt. She says all of the students she had in her class, almost all of them, were students who came from middle class, conservative, Republican, white families, church-going families. So please keep that in mind. and she assigned them to read the Sermon on the Mount in the King James Version. There was a book of English readings, it was an English lit course, and she assigned them to read the Sermon on the Mount in the King James Bible and then she sat down to read the response papers. Now, the first response paper said, religion is a big hoax and this Sermon on the Mount just proves it. it. So she went, whoa, not what I expected deep in the heart of Texas to hear somebody say. So she said, well, maybe it's a fluke. This person is maybe leaving the faith or something like that. But anyway, then she read response paper after response paper after response paper, and she found everybody, she says, in general, almost all the students when they read the Sermon on the Mount, though they were church-going, conservative people, they got angry and they dismissed it. They got angry and they were sweepingly dismissive. Here are a couple of the great quotes. Number one, this is from one of the papers, this is extremely strict and allows for almost no fun.

The Sermon on the Mount is extremely strict and allows for almost no fun. Number two, I did not like the Sermon on the Mount, It made me feel like I had to be perfect, and nobody is. Number three, the things asked in the Sermon on the Mount are just absurd. The things asked for in the Sermon on the Mount are just absurd, and the person went on to point out this idea that when you hate somebody, it's like killing them in your heart, that's absurd, and then the idea that if you lust for somebody, it's like committing adultery in your heart, that's really absurd, but then here's maybe my favorite that I've found. He says, It says, many of the things in the Sermon on the Mount are irrelevant to current life. For example, loving your enemies. No one does that anymore.

Missing the fact that when Jesus said this, no one did that either.

He said, well, this is irrelevant. People don't live like this anymore. Much of the Sermon on the Mount is irrelevant to current life. what she concluded were a couple things. One thing was that even though these young people had grown up in the church, they'd certainly heard a lot about Jesus, they hadn't listened to what he actually said because they were shocked by it. And because they were shocked by it, they're just proving what Jesus said. There's something about my teaching that even people who were, what did she say, middle class, conservative, Republican, white, church-going families, that when they actually saw what he said, it made them angry. And the other thing she realized is kind of like why it made her angry. You can even see it. It's exactly what Jesus said. My teaching makes you feel like there's something wrong with me, and I don't like to feel that way. right. Just a brief reminder of some things in the Sermon on the Mount. Let me just give you, remember these, if you remember these. And these were the things that they were reading about. Not only does it say you shouldn't kill, but you shouldn't even despise people in your heart or talk about them in mocking, marginalizing ways. Number two, it says you shouldn't swear at all. Remember that place where it says, swear not at all, but let your yes be yes, your no be no? Do you know what that means? He's not saying you can't take an oath. What he's actually saying is, don't swear and tell the truth because you're, you know, you're under oath, but then other times you're not honest. Let your yes be yes and your no be no means every time you say anything, it should be as honest as if you had a hand on a stack of Bibles in a courtroom. Every time you say anything, there should be that level of integrity in your life, that level of honesty. So it says, don't kill or even despise people. Don't swear. Be absolutely honest. Don't retaliate. Love your enemies. Remember that outdated idea? I mean, what Jesus says there is that when you are wronged, not only should you not pay back, not only should you forgive, but even when you tell the person they've done something wrong, you should do so in such a loving way that you might actually get them to believe you. Number four, you must not ignore the poor. You know the place where it says, when you give to the poor, don't let your right hand know what your left hand is doing? You know what that means? He says, don't talk about it to yourself. There shouldn't be any pride. There shouldn't be any condescension toward the poor. You shouldn't think, wow, I'm a really good person because I'm doing this for you. You should not, basically, you should treat the poor as equals. In fact, nor should radical giving. You know, he says in there, make sure you have treasures in heaven, not treasures on earth. Care about what God cares about. Care about the poor. Care about mission. Care about people. Put your money in that. Be radically generous and not condescending and patronizing and paternalistic in the way in which you give your money away. And then he says, don't worry. Remember that? He says, says, if you worry, if you're filled with anxiety, it's because you think you know better than God how your life ought to go, and as long as you're sure that you know better than God how your life ought to go, you will be worried, and it's your fault,

and then finally, he says, well, I didn't finally say, he says a lot more things, he says, don't be judgmental, don't judge, when he says, judge not, lest you be judged, He's not saying don't make a criticism. If he was saying don't make a criticism, then you can throw the whole Sermon on the Mount out because it's filled with criticism. What he's trying to say is the judgmental, the disdainful, the scornful, the haughty way you dismiss people. You mustn't do that. So, you know, look, here's what's so frightening about the Sermon on the Mount, and it is. If you actually listen to it, it's terrible. terrible, because on the one hand, he is describing the way human life ought to be lived, and you know it. We all know it. When he describes this is how human beings should live, we say, yes, yes. Not only do you want to live among people like that, but number two, in most of your life, you've been demanding that people around you live like that, and yet you don't do it. As I think David Martin Lloyd-Jones once said, God save us from the Sermon on the Mount. And so there's only two possibilities if you actually hear what Jesus is saying. Number one, you say, get this away from me. Number two, you could say, I need a radical salvation.

But actually, if you don't utterly hate it and get furious at him, or on the other hand, fall down and depend your entire, put your whole life at his command, you haven't actually heard him. But as he's saying, when you hear my words, when you actually hear me speaking, it will elicit hostility that will either drive you to me or away from me. Now, in light of that question, what hope is there that the world will ever hear? The truth. The truth of who Jesus is and the truth of the gospel. And the answer is there are two witnesses that God has sent into the world. Two witnesses that will be testifying. and those two witnesses are in verses 26 to 27 and the first one is the spirit, the Holy Spirit that's verse 26 and the second one is ta-da us but it's not as simple as that it never is, is it? so let's take a look, first of all the first witness the first one, witness to the truth that will be effective in this world in spite of the hostility is the Holy Spirit, now I'm going to be quite brief on this because some of you know in chapter 14, we've already, Jesus says much more about the Holy Spirit. And in chapter 16, which we're going to get to right away, will be also more about the Holy Spirit. In fact, what he says right here will be elaborated on. So I just want to basically say it because it's part of this passage and that's this. When he says the Holy Spirit will be sent to you, you who are with me from the beginning, at one level, he's talking about the apostles themselves. He's saying, you are with me from the beginning, and the Holy Spirit will come to you, and in chapter 16, he says, the Holy Spirit will help you remember everything I've said and understand everything I've said. This means that Jesus is saying that all the training I've done for the last three years for you, all the things I've said and done that you've seen or heard, and all the training and all the training I'm going to do after the resurrection. For 40 days, he trains them after the resurrection. That won't be enough. You'll forget things, you will misunderstand things, but the Holy Spirit will be coming to you so you perfectly understand everything I've given to you, and so that when you go out into the world and you begin to teach and write, you will be giving people the truth, the accurate and complete truth, because of the power of the Holy Spirit. That's what he's promising, which is, by the way, Where is that teaching today? It's in the New Testament, which is written by the apostles or the associates of the apostles. And therefore, you might say, Jesus is saying, the Holy Spirit will witness to the world through the teaching of the apostles, mainly the Bible.

Secondly, however, okay, now we're going to get back to that later. Secondly, though, I think he's got to be saying, when the advocate comes, who I will send to you from the Spirit of truth, who goes after the Father, he will testify about me, meaning that the Holy Spirit does come to people and open their hearts. We're going to see that also in chapter 16. Again, we don't have to elaborate. Chapter 16 will say the Holy Spirit comes to the world and convicts them. you know the place where in Acts chapter 2 Peter preaches the very first sermon after the resurrection in Jerusalem, 3000 people become Christians, why? it says they were cut to the heart why were they cut to the heart? they were cut to the heart because the Holy Spirit made their heart cuttable yeah the sermon cut them but the Holy Spirit made their heart cuttable

One of my favorite little pieces of historic literature is during the 18th century, during the Great Awakenings under George Whitefield and John Wesley and Charles Wesley in Britain, there were lots of people getting converted through these outdoor preachers. And a woman who became a Christian was an aristocrat. Her name was Lady Huntington. We're talking about like the 1730s and 40s. and she tried to bring a lot of her aristocratic friends, you know, nobles and royal people, to hear these preachers and a lot of them didn't like it and we have a letter from one of her friends who she had invited that the Duchess of Buckingham, the Duchess of Buckingham was invited to come to a sermon of George Whitefield and she wrote back, I cannot come and this is what she said. This has come down to us from history. Here's the letter. The Duchess of Buckingham says to Lady Huntington, quote, It is monstrous to be told that you have a heart as sinful as the common wretches that crawl the earth. This is highly offensive and insulting, and I cannot but wonder that your own ladyship should relish any sentiment so much at variance with high rank and good breeding. Now, if you can imagine Maggie Smith saying this in Downton Abbey, you got it. You got it. But, and even though I said that to make you laugh, and you could, can you just imagine Maggie Smith saying, and I cannot but wonder that your own ladyship should relish any sentiments so much at variance with high rank and good breeding. She was offended, the aristocrats were offended by the gospel, which is, you can't save yourself by your good works. You are a sinner. You're a hopeless sinner. And you have to be saved by grace, just like the lowest prostitute or criminal.

Well, you say, well, those were high aristocratic, you know, conservative people, my goodness, 18th century. Yeah, but okay. So now here we are in Manhattan, cosmopolitan, liberal Manhattan. How does the gospel that you're a wretch, you're a sinner, and you have to be saved by grace through Jesus Christ, how does that go over here? Huh? Our culture says you have to be true to yourself. You have to decide who you are. You shouldn't let anybody else tell you what is right or wrong for you. So here is the most liberal possible culture, or we are right now, kind of. And there's the most conservative possible culture, you know, the Duchess of Buckingham. And they all hate the gospel. The whole spectrum of political arrangements and human cultures, they all hate the gospel. And therefore, there is no hope unless the Holy Spirit makes our hearts cuttable. It is not that I did choose thee, for Lord that could not be. This heart would still refuse thee, hadst thou not chosen me. My heart owns none before thee, for thy rich grace I thirst. This knowing, if I love thee, thou must have loved me first.

So the Holy Spirit is the first witness. Through the Bible and through directly coming to us and making our hearts cuttable, because otherwise they're just hard. But then the second witness is who?

Us. And you also must testify, for you have been with me from the beginning. Now, of course, you just may say, well, wait a minute, I thought he was just talking to the apostles. Well, he is at one level. Almost all commentators and preachers over the years, as they studied these passages, have always said that when Jesus speaks to the disciples, you have to read it at clearly when he talks about from the beginning, I'm going to, like, for example, you and I have not been with Jesus from the beginning of his ministry. Secondly, when he says in chapter 16, the Holy Spirit will come and remind you of all the things I've already taught you. That's, he's talking to the apostles. But in chapter 17, as you will see, this is a great thing about exposition. We're just going to go through verse by verse. You'll see in chapter 17, Jesus prays to the Father for the disciples, his disciples, he says. He says, Father, praying as I send them out in the world that you will be with them, and then he says, and I'm praying not just for them, but also for those who will believe through their word, and that's us, and therefore, at one level, yes, of course, the apostles are going to bear witness, but another level, this is what Jesus is saying, you and me, if you're in this room, and you're a professing Christian, I'm not assuming that everybody is, but if you are a professing Christian, what this is saying, very carefully is, and you also must testify about me. And you also must testify about me. That's your mission, should you decide to accept it. Now, what is that mission? There's four parts. We can ascertain even from the text. There's four parts to that mission. That mission is going to be costly, truth-based, experience-based, but you'll never be alone.

First of all, it's costly. Why? How do we know it's costly? Because the word testify. Do you know what the Greek word there is? He says, and you, you, you, us, you must testify. You know what the Greek word is? It's the Greek word martyria. And somebody says, is that where we get the word martyr from? Yeah, yeah, it is. Now, in the original Greek, it didn't mean to necessarily die for your faith. It came to mean that. But here's the reason why. Originally, the word marteria meant to give authoritative testimony to what you have seen, even if it costs you something, to give authoritative testimony to what you have seen, even if it costs you something, and that's the reason why. Eventually, it does, and often costs, and it will. Now, we have to be really careful. We in no way live in, if you look around the world, world, you know, obviously in New York City, there is probably more cost to your reputation to be a Christian than it would be in maybe in the middle of Texas or Mississippi. Certainly, there's vastly more cost to being a Christian witness in Afghanistan than it is here. So, I mean, we have to be really careful about recognizing the vast spectrum of cost that it takes across the face of the world and across the face of history to be a witness on the other hand we have to realize it will always cost something it will always must always cost something because the very word testify means it will cost something when during World War II some of you know this story is you know the National Church of Germany which was a Lutheran church of course but it was like the National Church of Germany, had always been the national church. I mean, it was supported by, and actually still is, supported by tax dollars. So if you're a German citizen, some of your money, tax money, every year goes to support the church. So there was not only no persecution. It was, you know, the church was supported by the culture. The church was supported by the society. And then, of course, in the 1930s, that church signed a pledge of allegiance to Hitler, under a lot of pressure, of course, but signed a pledge of allegiance to Hitler. And so some of the people who wouldn't sign that pledge created something called the Confessing Church, and they started what they called underground seminaries, which means they trained their own ministers and leaders in non-official seminaries. non-official seminaries. And one of those teachers was Dietrich Bonhoeffer, who wrote a book for those underground seminaries called The Cost of Discipleship, Nachfolge. And that,

you know, actually, you can't understand that book unless you understand the setting. And basically what he said is this, is that we had gotten, you know, he said Christians can have periods of time in which the culture seems to be on our side, but the reality is you can't follow

yourself there's just no way he points out that martin luther said one of the true marks of the church is suffering that if you never get any heat if you never get any luther said if you never get any heat if you never get any flack if you never pay a cost for being a christian it probably means you're not actually truly living a consistent christian life suffering is one of the marks and it's intriguing because when you think about nazism which is fascism of course, fascism made an idol out of race, it made an absolute out of race, and therefore it could not handle real Christianity, because real Christianity says every human being is made in the image of God and are equal, but we live in a society in which an idol is made out of individual freedom, we valorize, we make an absolute out of individual freedom, and individual freedom means we have to live the way I want to live, and I can do with I have to do what I want to do. And, of course, that also will actually mean we can't handle Christianity because Christianity comes against all of those various forms. And, therefore, ultimately, though we have to be careful, as I just said, about crying out too much when we don't live in a place where we're really suffering anything like people, like Christians in the Middle East are suffering. Nevertheless, there's always a cost. That's what the word testify means. means. It means to bear witness no matter what the cost. Number two, though, the second thing we learn, we can kind of be brief on this one, I think, is this witness, this testimony that we're supposed to give is to the truth. It's not just autobiography. Notice the word about me at the end of verse 26. In the Greek, the way that it's set up grammatically, the term about me, which literally means concerning me is what you're supposed to testify. You also must testify concerning me. That means, and I don't think I have to spend much time on this, some of you have heard Christian testimonies, right? So many Christian testimonies are not about Jesus. They're about me. They're about what I went through. And even though, I'm going to get to this in a second, even though, of course, you have to embed the truth of what you've experienced, nevertheless, Jesus says It says the primary content and the primary burden of a Christian testimony is about Jesus, about who Jesus is, about what he has done. It's about the gospel. So it's truth-based. That means there's a body of content to master. If you're going to do what Jesus is calling all of us to do, you've got to know something about this. And you have to be very careful that when you do testify, it's not mainly about you. It's mainly about him. But thirdly, it is experience-based. Here's why. to that word, testify. The original word testify meant a witness who would come into court and testify not to speculation. You don't need to be in the witness stand to say, here's what I think. You don't need to be in the witness stand to say, here's what I infer. No, we don't care. If you're in a witness stand, it's because I saw something, I heard something. You need to have first-hand experience or, you know, get out of the witness stand. We don't need you. Tell me what you know. Tell me what you've seen. Tell me what you've heard, not just what you think, what you speculate, how you reason. And that means, ultimately, we're not going to be very effective at all in our testimony as Christians unless we have some first-hand actual experience. Have you had the love of Christ shed abroad in your heart? have you had your identity changed by him? Are the things like money and status and all those things, have you seen yourself change radically in your attitude toward them? Have you had the peace of Christ in your heart? In other words, is there actual experience? Now, John Stott, years ago, wrote a little book on Christian's testimony, and he made a statement that has just convicted me for years so misery loves company so I want you to have it too he says nothing shuts the mouth seals the lips and ties the tongue of a Christian than the secret poverty of our spiritual experience nothing shuts the mouth seals the lips and ties the tongue of Christians than the secret poverty our spiritual experience. And what he's saying, of course, is just what I'm trying to say here. And that is, it's not enough just to have a set of facts in your head about Jesus or about the gospel or about the Bible. That you will actually be extremely unfruitful if there hasn't been some, what he calls, wealth of spiritual experience. Unless the gospel is a living reality in your life. It's an existential living reality in your life. You say, how does that work? I'll show you how. I'm glad you asked me that question. One of the things that makes a Christian testimony very ineffective is pride. And there are plenty of Christians that when they do talk about their faith are very arrogant. It's like, it goes something like this, I am right, you are wrong, and I love telling you that. On the other hand, an experience, a true grasp existential experience of the gospel, which is you're saved by grace, not by your works. And therefore, You're a sinner saved by grace, meaning that you are no better than anybody else. You are not a Christian because you are better than anyone at all. It's a complete gift. And what that should do, it should make you far better, more effective, because it would make you sensitive. It would destroy that pride. Another reason why Christian witness is ineffective is because of fear. Because we are afraid, especially in a place like New York. That's the biggest problem in New York. to be put in jail. Not totally unlikely, but pretty unlikely to be put in jail for your Christian faith. But you certainly could lose a client. You certainly could have your career take a hit. You certainly could have your social life take a hit. And that's really frightening. But the gospel is, you know, who are you? Are you rooting your significance in power, approval, the fact that the Lord of the universe sees you as perfect in Jesus Christ and loves you unconditionally. To the degree you've experienced that, to that degree, you won't care what the world thinks. So witness can be hurt by pride. The gospel creates humility. Witness can be hurt by fear. The gospel creates courage. Your witness can be hurt also by pessimism. have you ever looked at somebody and thought in your heart that is not the type of person who would ever become Christian

here's the right answer oh and you are how wonderful that you have bestowed yourself upon God because you are the kind of raw material that a Christian is made out of and he just had to do a little polishing, you know, get a little rough edges off. See, the fact of the matter is there is no Christian type. There is no type of person. Listen, I've been doing, I have been looking at Christianity for 45 years from the inside. There is no Christian type. There is no Christian personality. There is no type of person, class of person, race of person. There is no temperament that is more likely to make you a Christian than anyone else. You realize that?

And we won't go into it here. You do know that Christianity is the only religion that is actually almost equally dispersed across the face of the world, across the races, across the continents. There is no Christian type. You know why? Because unless the Holy Spirit makes your heart cuttable, there is no naturally cuttable heart. And what that means is you're a miracle. And for you to look at anyone else and say that person would never become a Christian is, frankly, to think too highly of yourself. and the minute you begin to not think highly of yourself and you realize it's a miracle that i'm a christian well then you know what miracles can happen anywhere miracles don't follow natural laws do they you can't look at anyone and say oh that person can never become a christian see so pride hurts your witness but the gospel creates humility and fear creates you know hurts your witness and the gospel creates courage and pessimism uh you know hurts your witness. But if you understand the gospel, you're saved by sheer grace, and that creates hope. And then lastly, I guess one more thing, and that is, when you see something that's beautiful, you just have to share it. It's a kind of a human impulse. When you see something, whether it's music or a place, you just want to tell all your friends about it. And if you don't have that passion to talk about Jesus Christ to other people, you. He might be real in the sense of an abstraction, but he's not real to your heart. As somebody once said, nothing shuts the mouth, seals the lips, and ties the tongue of a Christian more than the secret poverty of our spiritual experience. But lastly, I said this mission is costly, it's truth-based, it's experience-based, but you'll never be alone.

Because, see, the Holy Spirit is coming to you. And if you remember, if you're here, John chapter 14, Jesus does a little bit of a kind of, you do a double take when he says in John 14, I'm going away so I can send you the Holy Spirit, and therefore I'm coming to you. Remember that? You read it and you go, what? And what he's simply saying is, I, in my incarnate form, am leaving you, but through the Holy Spirit, I will be there. And therefore, when Jesus says that when the advocate comes, whom I will send to you, you go out and testify, meaning you'll never be alone. I'll be right there with you. In 2 Timothy 4, and I'm always moved by reading the very last chapter of 2 Timothy. It's the last time you hear from Paul. Paul's in prison. He's in Rome. He's going to go on trial for his life. We also know that eventually he's going to be executed. And in 2 Timothy 4, he says this. 2 Timothy 4, he says, At my first defense, no one stood by me. Everyone deserted me. Okay? He had friends there, but they all just, they were scared. At my first defense, his first hearing, At my first offense, no one stood by me. Everyone deserted me. And then he says, but the Lord stood by my side and strengthened me, and I was delivered from the lion's mouth. And then he adds about his friends, may it not be held to their account. Paul was saying that I was on trial for my life. Here's the hostility of the world. the powers of the world. He was up before Rome, the great powers of the world, and he was on trial for his life, and he says, everybody deserted me, but the Lord stood by me, and I just testified.

And he was so comforted by that it didn't bother him that much that his poor, cowardly friends weren't there. He actually says, ah, you know, may not be held to their account. It's okay, it's okay. He wasn't wounded by it, because the Lord was with him, and that strengthened him. and that is your promise. Jesus says that other places. Go out in the world and make disciples and I'm with you always, remember? And he does it here more indirectly. That's your promise. And if you say, how do I know? How can I be absolutely sure that I'll have that feeling? Because a lot of us, frankly, have never really done anything like what Paul did there. Very few of us have actually really, really put everything on the line in front of a hostile crowd, in front of a hostile world for Jesus' sake. And here, the promise is, you know, in Matthew chapter 10, Paul says, if they draw, if they, I mean, pardon me, Jesus says, if they haul you up before tribunals and try you for your life, don't worry, you will get the words to speak. It'll be the Holy Spirit speaking through you. with you. You say, well, how can I be sure? I can tell you how I can be sure, because at the end of Jesus' life, when he was on trial for his life, and he was up there before the hostility of the world, and all of his friends deserted, and they either betrayed him, or they denied him, or they just fled from him. He was completely alone. What happened? Well, you say, well, was his father next He says, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Jesus Christ was alone. Not even God was with him. You know why? He was experiencing the penalty that we deserve for our sins. He was being abandoned. But he paid that penalty. So when you believe in him, you know that God loves you unconditionally. In other words, he was utterly alone before the world so that you never, ever, ever, ever, ever will have to be. He was utterly alone. So that when you believe in him, you can know, I don't care what comes, he'll be with me. That's true if you're actually on trial for your life, for your faith, which perhaps nobody in this room will ever face. That's certainly even true when you face death. Hey, when you face death and everybody's around your hospital bed, they can't come with you. But there is one who will take your hand and walk you through that too. The Lord was with me. My first defense, everybody else went away. The Lord's with me. That's the promise to you. Testify. And know you'll never be alone. Let's pray.

So, Father, thank you for the balance of these texts. Thank you for the wisdom of these texts. Thank you for how your word does cut us. It does. It convicts us of our lack of love and passion for you, the ineptitude of our testimony in many cases.

Father, through these passages, through this year of studying these texts of the Scripture, send us. Send us. we have believed through the word of the apostles and now send us that we may testify concerning your son Jesus Christ in whose name we pray Amen
