Notice something about open forums. I've done 50 of them, right? Every time, all the applause and every time I walk on, it all dies. 50 times. I don't know why in the world I keep doing it. Yeah, that might be the high point of my lecture right there. Hardware. Okay, our subject, faith, reason, and doubt, our subject's the reason for God, and I have to say that it's just ridiculous to tackle such a subject in one talk, so big. And about the only reason that I can do it with any kind of good conscience is actually because there's a follow-up. If I say something to you tonight and it begins to engage your interest or it sounds plausible, I can almost guarantee you I won't give you enough to really convince you or to really satisfy your thinking, your mind, your heart, because I have to give you a kind of helicopter ride over this subject for you to really see the terrain. And because I can't go into enough depth, because I wrote a book with the same title that goes into every one of the things I'm going to be talking about tonight

read the book, that's one level. If you want to read the footnotes, I was very careful to put sort of deeper arguments in the footnotes. It's the only reason I can even do what I'm doing tonight with a good conscience to know that if you really say, wow, this is something I really want to explore more, there's the book with the same title as the open forum tonight. So I want to talk about why the reason for God, the reasoning behind belief in God, the reasoning that leads to belief in God, why it's important, how it works, and what the reasons for God actually are. The reasons for belief. Why is the reason for God important? We didn't talk about it tonight. How does it work? And what are the actual reasons for God? What the reasons for God actually are. Now, first of all, I want to talk about why it's important. important, and some of you may be firm, sound skeptics. So you really don't believe in God, you really, or hardly, agnostic, atheist. Some of you are really firmly, soundly believing in God, but both of you need to know the reasons for God very, very much. So if you're a sound, firm skeptic, here's why you need to really know something about the reasoning that leads to We now live in a very different world than the one that when I, you can see how old I am just by looking at me. When I grew up, it was expected by all educated people that robust, orthodox, supernatural religion would eventually die out. And that in scientifically advanced, technologically advanced, economically developed countries where people are educated and they're sophisticated in understanding of the world, that slowly that would die out. out. That kind of robust Orthodox faith would die out and everybody would become more secular, and that hasn't happened. Oh, no, not at all. In fact, what we have now in the world today is not only growing skepticism and secularism, but also growing religion, orthodoxy, robust belief in a supernatural God, miracles, and the existence of God at the same time. Now, how are we going to get together? How are we going to live together in a pluralistic society? society, only if we learn how to sympathetically get inside, as much as we possibly can, the beliefs of the other. Okay? That means, for example, if you are a believer in God or a Christian, you need to be able to sympathetically and with respect get inside the doubts of people who don't believe at all. You need to understand them. And if you're a skeptic, it is crucial that you sympathetically get inside the reason for God and the reason for belief, so you at least understand them. And one of the things that is actually pretty discouraging, maybe I should say even dangerous about, you know, I'll go that far, about the new atheist books by Dawkins and Hitchens and others, is it's not new that those books are saying religion is bad. That's not new. Those books are not saying something new that's been around. books, is they're saying even respect for religion is bad. Even having any respect for a religious belief, that just encourages it. And you see, if you have some books out there that are encouraging one part of the population to disdain, belittle, and not even try to respect the heartfelt beliefs of another part of the population, beliefs that give them meaning in life and joy, that is a recipe for absolute social disaster. It is crucial that we learn as much as we possibly can to sympathetically respect and get inside the beliefs of the others. And so if you're a skeptic, you need to hear what I'm about to tell you for the sake of our country. Thank you very much. Okay. By the way, if you're a believer in God, the reason why you need to have some idea about the reasons behind your own faith is this. It's just not loving not to. There's an awful lot of people that are at some point going to turn to you. People in your family. People who are your friends. Especially people who are close to you. I know in general people don't like to talk about religion. But if you're a believer in God. Unless you keep it absolutely under wraps. At some point. Somebody's going to say to you. Why do you believe all this stuff? And if you just say. Well. I don't really know. I had this mother. I mean. If that's all you can say. When 1 Peter 3 says. You should always have a reason for the hope that's within you. Be ready with one. You're not really being very loving. And besides that. tough times in your life in which your feelings about the reality of God are going to go. And unless you've actually thought out the reasons for why you believe, you're not going to make it. But, you know, the vast majority of people are not sound skeptics or sound believers. The vast majority of people have a kind of love-hate relationship with belief in God. It's sort of there and it's sort of not there. And sometimes they pray and they feel it and sometimes it seems to be gone from them. And you particularly need to understand the reasoning behind belief in God. So that's why it's so important. works. How does belief in God work, actually work? How does the reasoning happen? And here, this is actually quite important in context. From what I can tell after 35 years of sitting down and talking with people about faith, reason, doubt, etc., everybody believes and disbelieves for three sets of reasons all at once. There are three kinds of reasons that are behind why all people who believe and why all people who disbelieve. Okay. If you disbelieve, it's for these same three groups of reasons. And if you believe, it's for the same reason. The first kind of reasoning are intellectual reasons. One of the reasons you believe and disbelieve is because intellectually you've thought about it. And believers are people who look at the arguments for God and they seem compelling. Disbelievers looked at the arguments and said, no, they're not. Believers see the objections to belief in God and core Christianity. And you find them surmountable. Disbelievers, nonbelievers look at the objections. And you feel they're insurmountable. So the first reason you believe or disbelieve is intellectual. But the second reason you believe or disbelieve is always personal. You are not. We are not. Brains in vats. we're embodied we're persons and everybody who believes or disbelieves to some degree is influenced by personal experience not just your thinking and it's pretty intriguing because you see some people have horrible things happen to them everything goes wrong and some people interpret that to mean i really need god to get through it drives them toward god and other people interpret it to mean, I don't need a God who will let this happen. Other people have success in life. Everything goes well. And some people interpret it like this. Well, who needs God? I'm doing pretty well. And other people interpret it like this. I got to the top and I'm empty. I need something besides stuff to live for. Interpreted personal experience is always a big part of why you believe or disbelieve, not just your head. And there's a third set sexual, there's the personal, and finally, there's the social or cultural. Here's what I mean. In the last generation, a whole discipline developed called the sociology of knowledge. It's actually a pretty uncomfortable discipline because here's what it says, and you know this truly. You just always think it's true of them, but not me. That the people you most want to like you. The people you most depend on and need. The people who you most want to be accepted by. You know. The community you most want to be a part of. Those people. You'll always find their beliefs highly plausible. And the people who you don't like. And you don't want anything to do with. And you don't really want to be a part of. You always find their beliefs highly implausible. So. To a great degree. The reason. You. leave is because of who you hang out with. And let's be really honest about this. And that is plenty of you lost your faith in God partly because you were hanging out with a group of people you wanted to be part of. And they were very sophisticated. And they were all laughing at belief. But let's be honest. Some of you have come to belief in God because you were hanging out with another group of people. Sophisticated. Great. Really neat people. People that you wanted to like you, and as a result, all the things they said sounded pretty plausible. Now, having said that, that there's always three kinds of reasons, intellectual, personal, and you might say social or communal or cultural. You must never, ever, ever, and we do, justify yourself by thinking, no, those people, their beliefs all reduce to one. You must never reduce everything to one, because here's how it happens. Secular people very often will say, I'm rational, but the reason for your beliefs, you believer in God, is personal and cultural. So here's something that's been thrown at me all the time and maybe at some of you. Somebody, a secular person, sits there and says, oh, you Christians, you think you have the truth. If you were born in Madagascar and raised in Madagascar, you wouldn't even be a Christian. Okay, what's that Here's what it's supposed to prove. I'm rational. My beliefs are rational. But your beliefs are simply the product of your culture. Well, what's the comeback to that? The secular person says, if you were born in Madagascar, you wouldn't be a Christian. The comeback is, but if you were born in Madagascar, you wouldn't be secular. Does that mean that your secular beliefs are simply the result of conditioning of all your secular friends? The point is, all of our beliefs come partly through reason. just cultural. Partly through personal. But they're never just cultural. They're never just personal. They're never just intellectual. And by the way, Christians make this mistake all the time because Christians have a tendency to say, you know, sometimes Christians will say, here are all my arguments. Here are all my reasons why you should believe. And you know, the non-believer sits there and says, well, that doesn't make a lot of sense to me. And you say, are you an idiot? I made all these great arguments. They're compelling. What's the matter with you? You're being stubborn. Listen, if you're a Christian, Don't you believe that human beings are in the image of God? Do you think only their reasons are in the image of God? Our social aspect, our personal aspect, our emotional aspect, our intellectual aspect, all in the image of God. They're all important. So you must never in a self-justifying way say, well, belief is all a matter of personal. It's all a matter of cultural. Or it's all a matter of intellectual. Never. Having said that. that. By the way, I could show you that every time a person comes to faith and every time even a person grows in faith, those three things come together. And if you want more, I can give you a couple examples from my own life, but we could do that in a Q&A if you want that. I'm not going to take time here. Because third of all, and the lastly, and yet this is the most substantial of the three points, so don't get your hopes up. What are the reasons for God? In other words, how does reasoning lead to belief in God. Now this is where I said if I didn't have a book there to give it to you and say go get the book. If this intrigues you and this helps you go get the book. This is going to be very sketchy but there's a lot of ways of stacking it but I would say this is the way reasoning leads to belief in God. Three steps. This isn't the only way to stack it. And I'm not saying everybody goes through these three stages personally but I'm saying logically, rationally there's three steps in reasoning toward believing God. Step one is when you come to realize and recognize it takes as much faith to disbelieve in God as to believe in Him. First step. On your way. It takes as much faith to disbelieve in God as to believe in Him. Does that make sense to some of you? You say, no, it doesn't make any sense. Well, let me get there. Second stage, though. The second step is when you come to see it takes more of a leap of faith to disbelieve in God than to believe in God. It doesn't take just as much faith, but it takes more of a leap in the dark of faith to disbelieve in God than to believe in God. But the third stage is when you realize that whereas you can reason into probability, it takes personal commitment to reach certainty. Now let's look at those three things and then we're finished. Three. Number one. As at the first stage. Or step. Whatever you want to put it. Would be. That. It takes. As much. Faith. To disbelieve. As to believe. Now. How do I. Establish. That. Well. The point. Is. You can't. Prove. There's. No. God. You. Can't. Prove. There's. No. God. You. Cannot. Prove. The. Non. Existence. Of. God. No. Way. There. Many. Arguments. But. You. Can't. prove that. And because you can't prove the non-existence of God, there might be a God, and therefore to live as if there is no God is an act of faith. You say, what do you mean? Aren't there pretty good arguments against the existence of God? Well, let me give you three, and I'll show you why they don't hold up. They're not the only ones, but the only ones I've got time for. Probably the one that you heard the most is evil and suffering. Evil and suffering proves there can't be a God. You know how that works? Here's how it goes. Doesn't the Bible say God is a good and all-powerful God? He's all good, he's all-powerful. Look at all this senseless, pointless evil and suffering. Now, if God was all-good but not powerful, maybe he wants to stop it, but he can't. Or if God was all-powerful but not all-good, maybe God could stop it, but he doesn't want to. But if God was all good and all powerful, he would not let all this senseless, pointless evil happen. And therefore, since senseless, pointless evil is happening, there can't be the traditional God of the Bible. Is that an argument? It's an argument. That proves there can't be a God. There's only a problem. William Alston, who's one of the leading philosophers of our time, he's an emeritus at Syracuse University, wrote this. He says, He says, the effort to demonstrate that evil disproves God in philosophical circles is now acknowledged on almost all sites to be completely bankrupt. He says, there hasn't been a major philosophical work in 25 years trying to prove it. And this is the reason why. It doesn't work. You know why? It's partly philosophical. It's mainly philosophical for him anyway. It's this. When you say there can't be a God if there's pointless and senseless evil. There's pointless and senseless evil. Therefore, there can't be a God. Here's one problem. how do you know it's pointless you say well i can't think of any good reason why god would allow it ah so your assumption is because you can't think of a good reason why god would allow suffering and evil there can't be one that's a non sequitur it doesn't work and philosophers have seen that and what that means is yeah evil and suffering is still something that really bothers us and hurts us but does it disprove the existence of god unless you can prove There can't be a reason for God to allow it that you can't think of. And you can't prove that. Therefore, it doesn't prove that God doesn't exist. And by the way, some of you saying, well, it's not philosophical for me. It's personal. I don't believe in God because it's personal. But you've got to remember what I said in the beginning. There are plenty of people. Plenty of people. Who have had horrible suffering worse than yours. And it's led them to God. Not away from God. So you can't say that just because suffering has moved you away from God. Then somehow it disproves God. God. And besides that, you know, if Christianity is true, and I know I'm sort of jumping to the end of the sermon here, but if, you know, the Christian gospel is that God came down in the person of Jesus Christ and experienced suffering. He walked with us. He cares about us so much that he did that. And that means that even though we still don't know what the reason for suffering is, we know what it isn't. It can't be that he doesn't love us. And so, you see, there's all why suffering and evil is a problem, but does it disprove God? No. Okay, second argument. Well, there's a second argument that says there can't be a God, and that's the argument for all the violence and oppression and injustice that religious people have done over the years. That's kind of Christopher Hitchens' main argument. If there is a good God, why in the world would his believers be so demonic? Belief in God is poisoning everything. thing. It's the reason behind so much of the problems in the world. Therefore, you know, there can't be a God if, a real God, because look at what all his believers are doing. Here's the problem with that, and it's going to be kind of quick. Every single worldview, every single philosophy, every religion and non-religion, atheism, every religion, every single religion has produced violence and oppression. There's something so deep in the human heart. There's a tendency to exploitation and oppression and self-aggrandizement so deep in the human heart that it can twist any set of beliefs into violence. So, for example, Buddhism and Shintoism, out of that soil grew the Japanese militarism of World War II. too. Out of Christianity, you have the original crusades back in the 11th and the 12th century down to people shooting the abortion doctors today, and they're saying they're inspired by Christianity. A lot of terrorism in the world today, the terrorists say they're inspired by Islam. But atheism, you see, Stalin, the Khmer Rouge, Cambodia, the killing fields. Now, yes, Yes, on the one hand, of course you can say that if you're a religious believer and you think you have the truth, the heart can twist that into violence. But think about this. Szczeslaw Mijosz, the great Polish poet who grew up and lived under communist domination in Poland. He saw all kinds of atrocities. He has this great little essay called The Discrete Charms of Nihilism. What do you think about that for a title? Nihilism in which he says, yes, it's true that belief in God can be twisted to violence. But he says, I have seen that non-belief in God can be fruitful for violence. Because non-belief in God says there's no judgment day. There's no afterlife. What I do here, no matter how bad it is, if I get away with it, there's no punishment in the afterlife. And he says, I've seen that twisted. And what does that mean? It's a wash. It means you can't say, look at Stalin. Atheism at the Crusades. Christianity leads to evil. Look at terrorism. Islam leads to evil. Yeah, everything leads to evil. It's our problem. It's not the religion's problem. And therefore, does talking about all the injustice disprove God? Of course not. Now, last, the biggest argument that says there can't be a God is the argument that says, hey, wait a minute. We assume God doesn't exist until you can prove him. Unless you can prove him, I have absolutely no obligation God. Ah, but guess what? That's a leap of faith. You know why it's a leap of faith? It's a leap of faith for this reason. Why assume that if there is a creator God, he would be like other objects that are holy in the universe, like an island in the Pacific or a chemical compound, which can be proven empirically, scientifically? You see, if God was holy in the universe, then you could prove he exists. I mean, you don't have to believe in the abominable snowman unless somebody can prove he's there. But you see, God would be different. When Khrushchev, when the first cosmonaut went into space in 1961, the Russian cosmonaut, and came back, Khrushchev was making a speech not long after that and said, hey, we sent a cosmonaut into heaven and he didn't see God. And C.S. Lewis wrote a little essay about that and said, if there was a God who created us, You wouldn't relate to Him the way a person on the first floor relates to a person on the second floor. You think, well, if I go to the second floor, I should be able to find Him. Where is He? He says, rather, if God created us, we would relate to Him the way Hamlet relates to Shakespeare. Hamlet's never going to find out anything about Shakespeare by doing tests in the lab. Hamlet's never going to find anything else by going all through backstage. Let's find Him. The only way Hamlet will know anything about Shakespeare is if Shakespeare writes some information about Him into the play. about himself. And so for you to assume that if there is a God, we ought to prove him, assume something about the nature of God, which is, you may be right, you may not be right, but won't you admit it's a leap of faith? It's a huge leap of faith. Not only that, you're also assuming that if there is a God, he would certainly not hold me responsible, would he, for believing in him unless you could prove him? Why not? You can't prove hardly anything. By the way, philosophers will tell you, I can't prove to you today that I'm not a butterfly dreaming I'm a man. You can't prove that your memory works. You know why? It could be that the whole world got here five minutes ago, and your memory is playing tricks on you. There is no non-circular reason by which you can prove your memory works, because you have to use your memory in order to prove it works, and that's begging the question. You see, the point is, you can't You can't prove almost any of your moral convictions. You're living by them. So why would God look down and say, These people can't prove anything. Hardly anything. And yet they're basing their lives on these things that they can't prove. Then you turn around and say, I don't have to believe in God. I don't have to search for God. I don't have to even look for God. Unless you can prove Him. That's a leap of faith. Which means you can't prove there is no God. And you know what that means? It means, since there might be a God. Right? If you're living as if there's no God, you can't prove there's no God. There might be a God. That means to live as if there is no God, you're taking your life into your hands. It's a leap of faith. It's an incredible risk. And you're taking your life as much into your own hands as a believer is taking his or her life into their hands when they give it to God. Do you see that it takes every bit as much faith to disbelieve in God as to believe in Him? You have to. That's the first rung of the ladder. matter. It takes more of a leap of faith, actually, to believe, you see, that all this happened without God. If God exists, then of course this could happen. If God doesn't exist, it's amazing that this has happened. It's a bigger leap of faith to disbelieve in God than to believe in God. Here, let me give you a second one. Love. Oh, yeah. If there's no God, what they'll They'll tell you. What Dawkins and Hitchens etc. will tell you. Very simple. You feel love. And you feel that love is very significant. But the only reason you feel love. Is because it's chemistry in your brain. And the reason that chemical reaction happens. When you see love. Or feel beauty. The only reason that happens. Evolution has programmed you. To feel that this a significant. Because. it helped your ancestors. Pass a lot. To get a genetic. genetic code. There is no other reason. It feels significant, but it isn't. It's just a way for you to survive. That's it. There's no other reason for it to be there. You feel like it's right, but it isn't. And one Christian writer puts it like this and says, just try to live that way. Go ahead. Just try to live that way. He actually says in one place where... I found it. He says, let us suppose that nature is all that exists. You might decide to simply have as good a time as possible. You now know that because there is no God, by a series of hundredth chances, it has produced in you consciousness, which is an accidental result of the whole meaningless process though it feels significant. So you might try to simply have as good a time as possible, but you can't, except in the lowest animal sense, be in love with a girl if you know and keep on remembering that all the beauties of both her person and her character are a momentary and accidental pattern produced by the collision of atoms, and that your own response to them is only sort of a psychic phosphorescence arising from the behavior of your genes. You can't go on getting very serious pleasure from music if you know and keep remembering that its air of significance is Like it only because your nervous system is irrationally conditioned to like it. You may still, in the very lowest sense, have a good time with a girl and listen to the music. But just insofar as it becomes really good, just insofar as it ever threatens to push you on from cold sensuality into real warmth and enthusiasm and joy, so far will you be forced to feel the hopeless disharmony between your own emotions and what you believe about the universe. Now here's the point. If there is no God, love is insignificant. it's meaningless it's just happening because it helps you carry on your genetic code. You say, I'm not going to live that way I'm sorry I understand what you're saying but I know it's significant anyway. Okay, it's just a bigger leap of faith if you don't believe in God it's a bigger leap of faith to actually believe that love is significant when you take a look and see what you actually believe about. If there's a God who created us in love it's not that big a leap of faith to say love is significant. Let me give you one more I'm almost done human rights human rights. What is human rights? Human rights is the idea that every human being is so worthy and so has such dignity that regardless of race or class or wealth or gender, every human being has dignity and worth and must not be trampled on and has rights that must not be exploited, okay? Why would that be true? Alan Dershowitz, you know, a law professor at Harvard, has a book in which he chapter in which he tries to wrestle because he doesn't believe in God. And he says, now, historically, the idea of human rights was grounded in this idea that God made us, and because God made us in the image of God, therefore, you know, we have human rights. But there's a problem with that, he says. Most people, a lot of people don't believe in God. So why would there be human rights? He says, the second thing you could do is look at nature. Let's just go out there and say, well, well, maybe we look out at nature, and when we look out at nature, we see that nature just tells us that human beings are important. Well, that's not true. Not only can science tell you that human beings are more complicated than trees or rocks, but not that they're more valuable. And if you actually look and see what nature really says,

Annie Dillard wrote a book, Pulitzer Prize-winning book years ago, called Pilgrim at Tinker Creek. And she went out into the woods out in the Virginia mountains. And she wanted to live close to nature. And she lived near a creek. And she watched how nature worked at the creek. And she thought it was going to make her feel all warm and fuzzy and toasty about life. But it didn't. She saw basically what we all know. And that is, nature is all about, is red in tooth and claw. Nature is all about the strong eating the weak. All about the strong eating the weak. And at one point she actually watched a big water bug sting, kill a toad. And while it was paralyzed, sting it, paralyze it, and then put its sort of stinger down into its skull and suck its brains out. Until it basically collapsed as just a kind of, you know, shell. And it took her weeks to get over that. And here's what she says. Here's what she says. It would you too. Here's what she says. Evolution loves death more than it loves you or me or anyone. I had thought to live by the side of the creek in order to shape my life to its free flow. But I seem to have reached a point where I must draw the line. I must part ways with the only world I know. Look, cock robin may die, the most gruesome of slow deaths, and nature is no less pleased. The sun comes up, the creek rolls on, the survivors still sing. But I cannot feel that way about your death, nor you about mine, nor either of us about the robins. We value the individual supremely, and nature values him not a whit. I look as though, pardon me, it looks as though I might have to reject this creak life unless I want to be utterly brutalized. Either this natural world, my mother, is a monster, or I am a freak. Consider the former. The world is a monster. There's not a people in the world that behaves as badly as praying mantises. But wait, you say, there's no right or wrong in nature. Right and wrong is a human concept. Precisely. We are moral creatures in a universe that is running on chance and death, careening blindly from nowhere to nowhere, which somehow produce wonderful us. world runs on chance and death and power, but I cherish life and the rights of the weak versus the strong. So I crawl by chance out of the sea of amino acids, and I've evolved from slime, and now I must whirl around and shake my fist at that sea and cry, shame on you. You can see why I got a Pulitzer, really. We little blobs of soft tissue crawling around on this one planet's skin are right, and the whole universe is wrong. The world is a monster. Okay, well, let's try the other their option. I am a freak. Nature is fine. Our feelings are just freakishly amiss. The frog that the giant water bug sucked had a rush of feeling for about a second before its brain turned to broth. I, however, have been sapped by very strong feelings about that incident for almost daily for years. All right, then. It's our emotions and values that are amiss. We are freaks. The world's fine. This is just natural. Let us all go have lobotomies to restore us to a natural state. We can leave the library, then go back to the creek lobotomized and live on its banks as any muskrat or reed. You first. Now, here's what she's saying. Nature is all about the strong eating the weak. There's absolutely no way you can get human rights by looking at nature. And yet we feel there's something wrong about nature. Well, how in the world did we get this idea there's something wrong if it's utterly natural? Unless you want to believe in God, a supernatural standard. But if you don't have a supernatural standard, you look out at nature. You're going to get human rights? No way. So we can't go there. Here's the third possibility. God? Nature? No. God? Oh, no, we don't believe in God, says Dershowitz. At least a lot of people don't. Nature? No, can't go there. Third, we create human rights. Now, that's a possibility. We create. Legislative majorities get together and we say, these are rights. So we construct them. And you know what that means? Genocide is only wrong because we say so. Genocide is only wrong then because we have said so. Our legislative bodies have passed a law that says genocide is wrong. Nature, of course, can't say genocide is wrong because it does it all the time. But we say it's wrong. So we create human rights. But you know what the problem is with that? And Dershowitz is speaking as a practicing lawyer. He's absolutely right. He says that won't go because if genocide is wrong because we say so, then is genocide right because the majority says so? If 51% of the population votes a law that says we can kill the 49%, is that all right? Of course not. You know why? Because human rights are useless unless you can say to the majority, you have to honor our rights even though you are a majority. Human rights cannot be created. They have to be there. They can't be created. They have to be discovered. But wait a minute. Wait a minute. If there is no God, can't look to nature, can't look to legislative majority, so what does Dershowitz in the end, here's all we know. They're there. We don't know why. They're just there. There's no good reason for them to be there. They're just there. But guess what? What is he saying? You say, well, human rights is no proof of God. No, of course not. All we're trying to say is if there's a God, then of course human rights make sense. Even Dershowitz says so. But if there's not a God, human rights don't make sense. You can believe it in any way. But it's a bigger leap of faith to believe in human rights if there is no God. It's a bigger leap of faith to believe in love is significant leap of faith to believe in the fine-tuning of the universe. Now, what have we done? Have you proved God? No. All we're simply saying is it makes far more sense to believe in God than not to. And it takes a much bigger leap of faith to disbelieve in God than to believe in God. Where does that leave us? Well, here's the question. Well, then why not believe? What's your problem? And the answer is this. In the end, people say, ah, but you know what? what? And this is the end. I mean, sorry, I know this is going fast, and I can't believe I decided to cover it all, but there it is. But there's one last thing that you've got to understand. Once you see that it takes as much faith to disbelieve as not to believe, and then go beyond that, you begin to realize it takes even more leap in the dark to disbelieve than to not believe. Then all you get to the place of is that it's probably true that there's a God. And some people say, well, that's not good enough, is it? Well, no, it's not. Well, can't you get me all the way there? No, not through only one bucket of reasons. And here's why. If you imagine yourself on the edge of a cliff and you're falling off, and at the last minute you look over and you see a branch sticking out of the side of the cliff. Now, if you say, I know that branch can save me, I have no doubts at all, but you don't actually personally commit, personally grab it, you're dead. But on the other hand, if you say, I don't know if that can help me. I don't know. It might help me. It'd probably help me. I just don't even know. And you grab it. You live. Why? Because it's not the strength of your faith but the object of your faith that saves you. Strong faith in a weak object is fatally inferior to weak faith in a strong object. And the fact of the matter is just like in almost anything. You know, you don't know. Should I hire this person? You reason the probability. probability probably, but you have to commit. And a year later, you know you did the right thing. See, you can reason to probability, but you have to commit personally to certainty. It's the only way to go. And here's the great thing about Christianity. May I say at the very end, since I'm here really trying to argue for God, and that's what the topic is about, the reason for God, let me just say at this point, may I say that Christianity has something of a leg up on other their faiths. I mean, that's a little bold to say, but I'll just say it anyway. Here's why. If it's really true that what takes you from probability to certainty is personal commitment, fortunately, we've got in Christianity an incredibly personal God, and here's why. Do you remember how I said that if God created us, the only way we would know anything about Him is like Shakespeare can only tell Hamlet about himself if he wrote himself into the play? information about himself into the play. And that means that the only way we're really going to know God's there is if he reveals himself. But he doesn't just reveal information. You know who Dorothy Sayers is? She was one of the first women to ever graduate from Oxford, one of the first women back in the early part of the 20th century. And she was a detective novelist. And one of her series of novels was the Peter Wimsey novels. novels. And Peter Wimsey was, you know, an aristocrat, sort of upper crust, but he was also very vulnerable and very, very smart, and he solves all these mysteries. About halfway through, is it a third of the way, two-thirds of the way through the series, suddenly a female character appears. And that female character is named Harriet Vane. And Harriet Vane was one of the first women who ever graduated from Oxford. Harriet Vane is a writer of detective novels. And what most people who know something about Dorothy Sayers and know something about the literature know is here's what happened. As she was looking into this world that she had created, she looked and she fell in love with Peter Wimsey. And she saw how lonely he was. And she wrote herself into that world. She incarnated herself in that world and she married him and she rescued, she saved him. Ah, isn't that moving? Isn't that romantic? Doesn't that, isn't that moving? Guess what? The Bible goes one better. The gospel goes one better. See, other religions believe that God is up there and he's very good and he's very all-powerful and that's all true. True, but only Christianity says that God looked down into the world that He had written, that He had created, and He saw us flailing, and He saw us sinking, and He loved us, and He wrote Himself in, in the person of Jesus Christ. And He came, and He lived the life we should have lived, died the death we should have died, and was raised from the dead. That's a whole other talk, but the point of the matter is He saved us. Isn't that something? if you want to be personally committed to God, isn't it great that you have a God who really is a person? And if you read Him, I remember one time some years ago, somebody saying, I'd be happy to believe in your faith if you could just give me a watertight argument. And the right answer is, well, God didn't actually give us a watertight argument. He gave us something better. He gave us a watertight person. And when you read about Him, when you look at the things He said, when you look at the things that He did, when you compare what He says to what He did, when you read the stories of how He dealt with people, it's amazing. He loves you. He's written himself into the drama. He's here to save you. That's the branch, by the way, the Bible even calls him the branch that you need to grab. Now, well, here's what we're going to do. That's an overview. That's way too much and was way too sketchy, but we're going to take, there's the third part, which is coming up, which is about a half hour, 40 minutes of Q&A. I'm going to put myself right there as I usually do, sit there, take a mic, and people who want have standing mics, et cetera. It takes 2 or 3 minutes for us to put up the standing mics, 2 or 3 minutes for the musicians to be able to get their stuff off. And 2 or 3 minutes for those of you who really don't have the time to stay and you don't want to stay. You can leave. On the other hand, if you want to leave and not totally leave but go get refreshments, look at the book table, et cetera, that's over in the West building. So we're going to take 2 or 3 minutes right now. A break. And then I'm going to do a question and answer time for 30 to 35 minutes. And I'm so glad you came. Enjoy the music. Hope you liked the lecture. Thanks for coming. Thank you.