I'm glad to see that a number of you took our collective advice and said there's a lot more room in here than there is in the gymnasium, and there's a lot more of you here this week than there was last week, and that's a better distribution. Let me just remind you of something, because there's been a lot of moving around this summer in July and August since we're kicked out of Hunter Auditorium. We're using an order of service that sort of is an amalgamation of every one of the services, and the one part that you might not be used to is that the sermon comes sort of in the middle of the service. After the service, there's an offering, there's membership vows, there's prayers of the people, and another hymn. If you are used to a liturgy, if you're used to an order of service in which the sermon's the last thing, and then you sing, and then you leave, you might actually kind of have a spiritual letdown when the sermon's over. And you might say, what are these next 15 minutes? What are we doing here? There's always a spiritual logic and a spiritual rhythm to every form of service. There's no perfect one. They all have different advantages. And the advantage here is by putting the sermon more in the middle, it gives you more time to spin out, to think out, to sort of work in and to pray in the material from the text into your life. So, in other words, don't just twiddle your thumbs after the sermon's over. The service is not over when the sermon's over. Really think and really ask God to show you. He'll show you through his spirit how you can be applying this. Now, we're going to read a long passage, and let me tell you something about it before we do. We're looking this summer at Jesus' model of spirituality as he gives it to us in the Lord's Prayer. And every single week we're looking at a different phrase in the Lord's Prayer. This week it's, give us this day our daily bread. Now, what I want you to notice this week is that one of the two places in the New Testament where Jesus gives us this. This model of prayer.

One is in Matthew 6, one is here in Luke 11. That Luke 11 comes after Luke 10.

That Jesus' teaching in prayer comes right after this little story about Mary and Martha. Why? Well, now that's always an important question. If you're trying to understand what the gospel is teaching, one of the gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, you should always ask, why is this here following this, and coming back? Why is this happening before this? Because you know that place in John where it says, if everything Jesus said and did were recorded, there wouldn't be enough books in the world? The gospel writers have chosen very selectively only certain things. Out of all the things Jesus said and did, only certain things, and they've put them together in a certain order as a way of getting teaching across. And what's important to see is that Jesus' teaching on prayer is really a response to the story of Mary and Martha. In some ways, it's a response to Martha. And you're not going to really understand some of the aspects of Jesus' teaching on prayer unless you see that. So what we're going to do is we're going to read about Mary and Martha, and we're going to see how, afterwards, the response is this teaching on the prayer. Let's read the whole passage, and then we're going to see what the overall passage teaches us about prayer and about asking for our daily bread. Luke 10, 38 to 11, 13. As Jesus and his disciples were on their way, he came to a village where a woman named Martha opened her home to him. She had a sister called Mary who sat at the Lord's feet listening to what he said. But Martha was distracted by all the preparations that had to be made. She came to him and asked, Lord, don't you care that my sister has left me to do the work all by myself? Tell her to help me. Martha, Martha, the Lord answered, you are worried and upset about many things, but only one thing is needed. Mary has chosen what is better, and it will not be taken away from her. One day Jesus was praying in a certain place. When he finished, one of the disciples said to him, Lord, teach us to pray just as John taught his disciples. He said to them, when you pray, say, Father, hallowed be your name, your kingdom come. Give us each day our daily bread. Forgive us our sins, for we also forgive everyone who sins against us, and lead us not into temptation. Then he said to them, suppose one of you has a friend, and he goes to him at midnight and says, friend, lend me three loaves of bread, because a friend of mine on a journey has come to me, and I have nothing to set before him. And when the one inside answers, don't bother me, the door is already locked, my children are with me in bed, I can't get up and give you anything. I tell you, though he will not get up and give him the bread, because he is his friend, yet because of the man's boldness, he will get up and give him as much as he needs. So I say to you, ask, ask, and it will be given to you. Seek, and you will find. Knock, and the door will be opened to you. For everyone who asks, receives. And he who seeks, finds. And to him who knocks, the door will be opened. Which of you fathers, if your son asks for a fish, will give him a snake instead? Or if he asks for an egg, will give him a scorpion? And if you then, though you are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father in heaven give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him? This is God's Word. Luke here is showing us a problem, the cure for the problem, and then how we can get the cure. The problem is here in the story of Mary and Martha. The cure for the problem is in the Lord's Prayer. And how we get the cure is in these little stories at the end. The problem, the cure, and how we get the cure. Now, what's the problem? Martha has problems. She has problems. And Martha is very significant for us. You know, Mary and Martha are two different kinds of people. And in traditional cultures, especially in medieval times, in the West, Mary was, in a sense, the cultural ideal. She was a contemplative. But today, Martha is our cultural ideal. Martha is our cultural ideal. And actually, Martha's personality is drawn very clearly, not just here, but in several stories. You notice she has the audacity to essentially tell Jesus what to do. In John chapter 11, at the funeral of Mary and Martha's brother Lazarus, Jesus says, roll the stone away. And Martha says, what, are you crazy? You want that smell to come out here? So Martha is outspoken. Martha comes after Jesus. Notice, by the way, in verse 38, that even though Mary, Martha, and Lazarus lived together, they were two sisters and a brother, notice, verse 38, it's Martha's home. And here's what you have. You have the modern cultural ideal. She's a leader. She's assertive. She takes charge. She's always charging around. She's very goal-oriented, incredibly busy. She's her own person. And she's not just a cultural ideal. She's especially a New York kind of person. In fact, let's face it. If, you know, in a family, Martha's moved to New York. She's moved to New York City. The Marys stay home in Tennessee and Indiana and Alabama. Nobody ever comes, look, nobody has ever moved to New York to get a life. You don't, you come to get things done. You don't come to have a life. You don't have a life. Martha's.

And yet Martha is imploding.

I recently got a, off the newsstand, I got a, you know, big successful magazine called Fast Company. And it's nothing but a celebration of Martha-ness. It's for hard-driving, ambitious business entrepreneurs. You know, the name, Fast Company. But I got it down because what I was amazed at was on the cover it said, this was the cover story this week, it's this week by the way, or last week, How to Design a Life that Works. And when you go inside, when you go inside, one of the subtitles is, How to Design a Life at Work. That works. A life, for example, including, that includes sleep.

It says on the outside, How to Design a Life that Works. And then underneath, How Much is Enough? And when you go inside, there's a whole series of little, actual little cases, little interviews with people who have all ended up in a kind of therapy ranch for executives in Colorado. And what they all are, are examples of people incredibly successful, but, they began, their life began to personally implode. And yet, they couldn't stop working. They couldn't stop working. They couldn't stop charging around. They couldn't stop giving orders. They couldn't stop, you know, having so many goals. They couldn't stop. And it just strikes you right away, that the problems that Martha has, and the problems in almost every one of these case studies is the same in terms of symptoms and root causes. What are the symptoms? Well, look at Martha for a second. This is the kind of thing that this kind of person has problems with. First of all, she's alienated from herself, psychologically. Jesus says, now it doesn't quite come out in the translation, Jesus says, you are worried and upset about many things. The word worried actually means torn to pieces inside. And he's, what he's saying is, you are experiencing internal implosion because you have too many goals.

So not only is she alienated psychologically from herself, secondly, she's alienated from her sister. You know, she's mad at her sister. And of course, these incredibly busy people very often find, in the same way they don't have time for relationships, in many, many cases their families are falling apart, or else they're not getting families if they want them and so forth. And then thirdly, she's mad at Jesus. She says, don't you care? So she's spiritually alienated, she's psychologically alienated, she's relationally and socially alienated, just like all the people in the story. And what are the root causes? Well, here's the root causes, there's two. And they almost seem like contradictions, but they really go together. On the one hand, every one of them said this, and I kind of wrote these things down. You know, all this inner churning, all this stuff, all this burn out, you see, internal implosion. But the reasons are two. First of all, they say, number one, I have to keep it all going. I can't stop working because I have to keep it all going. I know how life has to go. I've got this agenda. And I can do it. So they have an overinflated view of their ability to control their lives. But on the other hand, they also say, I don't have any identity unless I'm successful, unless I'm getting a lot done, unless everybody needs me. And so on the other hand, they have an underestimate. So they overestimate their ability to control life, but they underestimate their value and their worth as people. And as a result, they're running around, and they're in turmoil, and they're eternally imploding, and they're in a lot of trouble. Now, Jesus actually comes to Mary, to Martha, and gives her the answer. What does he say? Martha, Martha, the Lord answers, you are worried and upset about many things, but only one thing is needed. Now, at this point, I want you to see, I'm going to give you a couple of, let me give you an idea about how to do what's called, you know, read a narrative, narrative discord, how to read the narrative. This story all by itself, if you don't connect it to Luke 11 and this teaching on prayer, makes no sense. This is terrible. We have Martha. Martha is the quintessential modern person. She's almost the quintessential New Yorker, okay? And she's falling apart. We all know about the anxiety. We all know about the feeling like I can't stop working. We all know about being driven. She's driven.

And Jesus comes and says, I got the answer. Just one thing. Okay, what? Mary's got it, he says. Okay, what? And it will not be taken away from her. Okay, what? And the story's over. I mean, Jesus analyzes her problem, says, here, there is a solution. Just one thing, you got to make your priority. And then, we don't know what it is. Mary's got it, but we don't know what it is. Unless you go into Luke 11, you don't really understand. You don't understand what Jesus' answer is, or what Luke's answer is. And the answer is prayer. Look, I'm all for therapy, actually. Good therapy, of course. I'm not saying they shouldn't have gone to this therapy camp for executives in Colorado. But what Jesus is saying here is, the one thing that's really going to heal you, give you a life, on the one hand of assertiveness, but on the other hand of serenity, able to handle anything. A life that works. A life in which, finally, you have a life of enough. A life of greatness. A life of poise. And what's the answer? Prayer. In fact, prayer, as Jesus says to pray, perfectly answers the problems of this kind of person. Many of which are right here, in front of my nose. One of which is right here, behind my nose.

Praying as Jesus said to pray, perfectly answers the needs of the Martha-ness, the people who have an overestimate of their ability to control things, and an underestimate of their own value. And as a result, they can't stop working. They can't stop setting goals. They can't stop trying to get too much done. They can't stop. The only way you're going to get a life of serenity, being able to handle life as it comes at you, is going to be through prayer. Now, why? But particular kind of prayer. And what is the kind of prayer? Now, it comes out very, very clearly in the Lucan version of the Lord's Prayer. The Matthew version is longer. And so it's the one we use. The Luke version is shorter. But tonight, it's not a bad idea to look at it. Because something comes out very clearly. And that is this. Luke is showing us that Jesus says, my kind of prayer, the prayer I ask you to do, which might be different than other people, not as you conceive it, my kind of prayer is this. I want you to pray for things very, very aggressively, and very, very submissively. Very, very aggressively. And, and, same time, very, very submissively. Not one or the other, but both. And the more aggressive and the more submissive, the more you can push your prayer life out to these extremes, at the same time, the more you'll be cured. Now, let me show you how he says that. First of all, he says, you have to ask for things very, very aggressively. And that comes out. Give us this day our daily bread. But Jesus really pushes it home right after that when he says, go boldly. Right? And when he says, ask, knock, seek. Now, what is he saying? Here's what he's saying. He's saying, here's, he's saying this. Number one, ask for specific things. Daily bread means the specifics. My daily stuff. Circumstances. Ask for, for specific things. Secondly, he's saying ask for big things. Open your imagination. The word open there has got to do with scale and scope. In Ephesians chapter 3, verse 30, we have one amazing thing. Paul's talking about this. Paul says, now to him who is able to do

exceeding abundantly, exceedingly abundantly above all we dare ask or think.

Remember, remember when Luke asked Han Solo, don't you want the reward? It's more than you can imagine. He says, I don't know. I can imagine an awful lot. Well, you see, when we hear something like this, Paul says, God is ready to give you beyond your imagination. We say, how could that be? I can imagine so much. But he doesn't just say beyond. He says exceedingly, abundantly, above, all. Triple quadruple. I mean, Paul is just grabbing ahead of superlatives and says, ask aggressively, ask boldly, ask specifically. Ask for the stars. Thou art coming to a king. Large petitions with thee bring. For his grace and power are such. None can ever ask too much. And you're supposed to ask boldly. The word bold comes out. And knock. You know, knocking actually is relentlessness, relentlessness. You don't just knock like this. You know, don't go up to a door. Don't go to your friend's apartment door and just go like this. Person, what was that? They're not going to come. What was that? They're not going to come. You knock. And by Jesus picking out knocking, knocking as the image for praying, he is saying ask specifically. He is saying ask, ask largely. And he's saying ask boldly. When you actually see people praying in the Bible, you're shocked because it just seems rude. Take a look at Moses doing it. Go back to especially Exodus 33. Look at Moses praying to God. He says, he says things like, look, you've got to listen to your promise. You've got to look at your name. You've got to look at your glory. Do this because of your name. Do this because of your glory. Do this because of your word. Do this because of your covenant. Do this. And you say, man. Hey, but Moses was a man of faith. Moses was one of the people that prayed right. So first of all, we're being told, pray very, very aggressively. Look at the last two words of the passage as I printed them out there. Look at the last two words of the passage.

Ask him! Exclamation point. So that's the first thing. Do you ask that aggressively? Do you ask that rudely? Do you ask that boldly? Do you press in that way?

If not, that's one of your problems. It's one of the reasons why you're worried. It's one of the reasons why you've got a problem. But then on the other hand, now, follow me on this one. On the other hand, Jesus says here, when you pray, pray very, very submissively.

Now, where does he say that? Well, first of all, it comes out pretty clearly. When you take a look at Luke's version of the Lord's Prayer, it's so short that it's pretty obvious. First of all, it says, the first line, hallowed be your name, your kingdom come. And then, second line, give us this day our daily bread. Now, therefore, what we're seeing is, we're being told before you wrestle for your needs personally, before you wrestle for your daily bread and your daily needs, you have to wrestle for the honor of God and for the kingdom of God. In other words, before you are allowed to come to your personal needs, you have to be experiencing a healing of perspective. Now, what do I mean by a healing of perspective? Well, now see, to pray for the honor of Jesus' name, or God's name, to pray for the kingdom means you're wrestling for the needs of the people. The kingdom of God is the justice of God. So you're wrestling for people. And you're wrestling for the honor and glory of God. And what you're doing before you're ever allowed to get to your needs, Jesus says, I want you to be wrestling to put God's glory and your neighbor's good in the center of your life. Do everything you can to push it in there. Make His beauty, make His love, make His glory the thing that your life centers around. Make the good of the people around you the thing your life centers around. And then, after you've gone through that healing of your perspective, then and only then can you get to your own needs. Why? Because otherwise you won't know what your daily bread really is. What is daily bread? What does that term mean? Every commentator says it's very important to see that Jesus does not tell you to pray for your daily steak, or pray for your daily baked Alaska, or pray for your daily dessert. Daily bread means the things you feel like I've got to have or I'm dead. The things I've got to have or I'm starving. And what Jesus is saying is you're not going to know what those things are until your perspective has been healed. Because you see, one of the problems is, unless you heal your perspective constantly by saying what should matter is His glory, His love, His truth, His view of me, in other words, God and my neighbor, unless that's my center, we're going to center on other things. We're going to center our lives on other things. And we're going to think those things are bread. We're going to think those things are things we've got to have or we die. I'll give you some examples. For example, one of the reasons why you're driven to work too hard, in spite of the fact that you say God is my Savior, it could be that your real Savior, your real center, is your career, your financial situation. Or what if you're somebody that's has a lot of trouble, a lot of trouble, forgiving somebody who really embarrassed you? Well, you might say God is your Savior, but functionally it could be that your reputation and approval of other people is your real center. Or what if you failed in some way in your past and you just can't get over it, you can't get past it?

That means your performance is your center, your record.

Now, therefore, to pray submissively means when Jesus Christ gives us the Lord's Prayer in this order, what He is saying is, we must say, before we pray for our daily bread, we must say, Lord, I know that my perspective is off. I realize things that I feel like I've got to have, things that I've centered my life on. I realize there's certain things that I think are my daily bread that aren't. I may not be seeing things right. I may not be asking for the right thing. I may not know exactly what I ought to have. And therefore, help me to center, help me to center on your glory, on your kingdom, on your love, on your view of me, on your word, on what you say. Help me. Heal my perspective. That's to pray submissively. Now, if you want an example, there's two examples here of this. Just to show how off our perspective is, look down here at verses 11 to 13.

Very interesting.

Take a look at it. I'm not going to read it. Look at it for a second. You've all got bulletins.

How much more will your Father in heaven give? Now, here's the point.

Let me just show you how our perspective is off. Jesus comes to you. Let's imagine a dialogue between you and Jesus. Jesus comes to you and says, hey, ask for the stars. You say, huh? Ask for the stars. Imagine the greatest thing you could possibly ask for and ask for it. God wants to and will listen to your prayers. Ask for the stars. Give up your small ambitions. And you're going, what? Yeah, he says, ask for the stars. Ask for anything. Ask for the greatest thing you can. Don't be afraid. He'll give it to you. And you say, what? Really? And he says, yeah. For example, ask for the Holy Spirit. Ask for more love, more character, more perspective. More power, more joy than you ever have. Don't be afraid. Ask him for it. He'll give it to you. And you say, oh.

Yeah, don't you? You say, oh. Why do you say, oh? Because when Jesus Christ says, ask for the greatest thing you can. Don't be afraid. And then says, just sort of in passing, therefore, how much more will your Father in heaven give the Holy Spirit to those who ask? And you suddenly realize he's speaking from a healed perspective. Because now let's think about this for a second. I mean, this won't be easy. Immediately when you hear these incredible claims, pray for the moon, pray for the stars, anything you give, give me the desires of your heart. I will hear you. You immediately say, too good to be true. Why? Because you know what you're thinking of. You're thinking of career. You're thinking of love. You're thinking of money. You're thinking of those things immediately, which you think are bread.

And you think it's incredible. And Jesus is saying, well, wait a minute. Will you stop and think about this? Do you need a better career? Do you need more money? Do you need a better love life? Do you need a better family? Or do you need the kind of joy, the kind of character, the kind of love, the kind of courage, the kind of wisdom that will enable you to handle anything life throws at you? Now, what do you really need? What is the real reason for you to be a Christian? What is the real bread here? It's to be pulsating with the joy of the kingdom and the honor and the glory of God. And you say, well, yeah, I guess so. But you notice I had to get you there. We have to get ourselves there by logic because our hearts, their perspective is different. The hearts are centering on other things. Now, if you want a perfect example of this, you got it right here.

Martha herself. And do you realize that one of the things that's so astounding about this, is right here where Luke is trying to show us the meaning of prayer. He gives us an example of Jesus turning a prayer down. Look at Martha. She comes and she has a prayer here. She says, Lord, don't you care that my sister has left me to do the work by myself? Tell her to help me. Now, let's do some analysis here. Martha thinks she knows what she needs. Martha is running around and she realizes she's bitten off more than she can chew. Martha is the kind of person who is a perfectionist. Martha is the kind of person who is a super competent person. Martha is putting on an event. Martha is putting on a banquet. And she says in her mind, it's all for Jesus.

It's collapsing. It's falling down. Everything is down. And she comes in and she says, I know we'll fix it. I know what I've got to have. I've got to have help. The only person to give me the help is right there. Lord, answer me. Answer my prayer. Change the circumstance. Change her attitude. Make her volunteer. That's what I need. And what does Jesus do? Jesus says no.

And basically, here's what Jesus is doing. He's looking at her and saying, what? Only one thing is needed. Only one thing is necessary.

The real problem in your life, Martha, is that you think you're doing this for me, and you're doing it for you.

And this is all because Mary is not helping you. Your work, your need to be in charge, it's the center of your life. And the reason you're miserable is not because Mary is not helping you. It's because this stuff is too important to you. And Martha, the only way, Jesus says, I can call you into greatness, is if I refuse to answer your prayer. Martha, I'm going to give you greatness. I'm going to show you that what you think you're doing is great, you need, you don't need. If I actually answer your prayer, you'll still live in the veil of illusion. Martha, your problem is you think what is daily bread is not. Only one thing is needed. I need this. No, you don't. And this is what it means then to pray submissively. Can you imagine? This is incredible. I've had many people who say, okay, I know, I know, I'm supposed to submit to God's will. I know I got to be a good Christian. And when you're not submitting to God's will, you say, bad Christian, I should be submitting. Where's my faith? Don't I trust God? Listen, that's never going to work. You just beat yourself into the ground. You need to understand. And here's what you have to understand. You have to say, if I am not getting what I want, it's because God's making me great. He's showing me that something I think is daily bread is not. He's giving me what I really need.

Jesus, Jesus is saying, Martha, Martha,

take your heart off these things. Don't let them run you anymore. I'm not going to answer your prayer so that I do answer your prayer. I'm not going to give you what you think you need so you can find what you really do need. Mary knows what you need. She's got it. Wow. And don't you see why this is really, therefore, now let's take stock here. Therefore, if you prayed aggressively and submissively, if you prayed so incredibly aggressively saying, I got a God who really wants to please and who wants to please me, wants my best and runs the universe, then you would have the kind of, how do I say it? You'd have the kind of joy that you have to have. My God loves me. So you don't feel valueless like those people who are working too hard. But on the other hand, you're submissive. You say, if I'm not getting what I want, it's because God is trying to bring greatness. And me. And of course that means that means you're not, you're not pushing all the time and feeling like I've got to keep everything up. The only way you can get into this incredible life of both serenity and assertiveness, not just being assertive, you see, and then getting so frustrated when things don't go right and not being very submissive, but then being passive, but both, both. How can you have a life like that? Jesus says only when you pray, pray the way I explain prayer, pray the way, you know, pray with the understanding I give you a prayer. Pray my way. Now that's the cure. But if I end the sermon right here, even though it's right about the time to end the sermon, we'll all be frustrated because we're going to say, okay, I have to pray more aggressively, but I have to pray more submissively. Okay. And you know, I want you to know if this doesn't work, if you just get out there and try, it doesn't work. And here's why it doesn't work because you're not being assertive. You're not being assertive. You're not being assertive. You're not being assertive. You're not being assertive. You're not being assertive. Because if you say, that's what I need, I need that kind of life. I'm like Martha. I'm not too far from being one of those people written up in that magazine. I got to pray. And now I see what I had to pray. I need to pray aggressively. I need to pray submissively. I got to remember all this. If you do that, you're going down the path of what we've been calling here this year, especially religion. What is religion? Religion is where you say, I'm going to do things right. I'm going to do things by the rules and then God will have to bless me. And I want you to realize that's

a more traditional way of understanding it is that's trying to earn your own salvation.

And when you go the way of religion by saying, I'm going to get my prayer life just right, I'll tell you what's going to happen. When you feel like you're doing well, you'll be aggressive, but not submissive. Or when you think you're doing badly, you'll be submissive, but not aggressive. When you feel like my conscience is clear, I'm doing very well. God should bless me. You'll be aggressive. But when things go bad, you'll be mad. On the other hand, if things are going well, you'll be mad. You'll be mad. You'll be mad. You'll be mad. You'll be mad. You'll be mad. You'll be mad. You'll be proud. You won't be able to keep aggression and submission together. You just won't be able to do it. You won't be able to keep together joy and assertiveness and confidence toward the world at the same time, the sweet ability to handle anything that comes at you graciously and say, whoops, it's Jesus saying Martha, Martha to me. You're not going to be able to do that unless you understand the gospel. And through the gospel, you become children of God and you constantly live in consciousness of being children of God. Now, where does it say that? So you don't, this won't work if you just try. You've got to be transformed by the gospel and the children of God and then transformed in your consciousness of your being an adopted child of God by the Holy Spirit constantly where you can't attain this. Now, where does it say that? Let me show you there's a contradiction that's very hard to see. And this is one of the reasons why, you know, you're supposed to have teachers of the Bible sometimes. An awful lot of this stuff is just laying out there. This is not something you see on the surface. In verse 8, it says, I tell you though, he will not get up and give him the bread because he is his friend. Yet because of the man's boldness, he will get up and give him as much as he needs. Now, that word boldness, because of his boldness, Jesus is saying, be bold. You say, okay, you've talked about that. Well, not, I really haven't. Because this is a very, very odd word. This word means shamelessness. It's not translated properly. I mean, it never, it, I haven't found a translation. Every commentator says the word means rudeness. The word means impertinence. The word means shameless. And yet no translator can quite go over the edge and say it, but it ought to. In Hebrews 12, at the very end, it says, let us worship the Lord with reverence and awe for our God is a consuming fire. Let us worship the Lord with reverence and awe for our God is a consuming fire. Let us worship the Lord with reverence and awe. And the word reverence and awe is the word eidos, which means abjectness, you know, down, you know, in the dust, reverence. But Jesus Christ, in spite of what Hebrews 12 says, reverent, he says, worship God with reverence for he's a consuming fire. In spite of that, in Luke chapter 11, Jesus, this word here is the word un-eidos, un-eidos, which actually literally means un-reverent.

Jesus says, when you go to God, pray irreverently. Pray shamelessly. Pray impertinently. Now, how do you explain that contradiction? Which is it? Is God a consuming fire that we have to approach with reverence and awe? Or is God someone that we're supposed to approach with irreverence? Which is it? It must be a contradiction. Only if you don't understand the gospel.

Because shamelessness, only works if you're a child coming to your father.

Think of the two sides here. If you're a child approaching your father, you can run in and you can grab him by the sleeve and you can pull on the sleeve. And you can say, you've got to help me. You've got to come now. You've got to get me this. You've got to get me that. No appointment. You see? No deference. No bowing and scraping. No, oh, excuse me, mister. No. Daddy. And you run in and you grab. And this kind of impertinent, irreverent, absolutely familiar behavior with a great personage is only appropriate if you are the love child of this person. So on the one hand, shamelessness makes absolutely no sense unless you realize you're a child of God. On the other hand, there's a helplessness that comes. Praying as a child is the only way you can get this aggression and submission. If you pray as a child, one of the things children are really used to constantly getting from parents is this. Parents are continually responding to children's needs but ignoring their request. Parents continually, this is where the submission comes in. Children are used to this. Parents continually respond to the need but ignore the request. Now, what do I mean? Okay, I'll give you, let me give you a reverse of the example right here. You're walking along with your child. And suddenly the child sees a little scorpion, a poisoned scorpion going off. And the little child runs and says, what are you doing? He says, I want that for a pet. And what do you do? You grab the kid. You pick him up and say, no. It's unanswered prayer. But you say, honey, honey, listen. If you want a pet, I'll get you a fish.

I'll get you a little chicken.

I'll get you an egg. In other words, what are we doing? What are we doing? Now, this happens all the time. All the time. Almost every day you say, honey, okay, you want to have fun? But don't do that. We'll have fun over here. Honey, you want a pet? But not that. You know, this. Honey, you want to eat something? Great. But don't eat that. I mean, what are you doing? In every case, you're saying, I will respond to the need because I love you. And I'm a parent. And I want to see you pleased. And I want to see you satisfied. But the particular request, no.

See, that's what Jesus did with Martha. And children are used to that. And if you pray as a child, one thing you, children are used to this. Their parents are continually saying to them, honey, I'm going to give you what you would have asked for if you knew everything I know.

And Christians are people who know that's the way it is with prayer. When I pray to God, I will get what I asked or I will get something I should have asked for if I knew everything he knows. He's going to respond. He's going to respond to my need even if he turns down the request. And therefore, only if I pray as a child, only approaching God as a child approaches a father can account for the shamelessness, the aggression, and the submissiveness and the helplessness. And that's because only the gospel can create a sense of being a child. What's the gospel? Well, religion is I give God a record of righteousness. And then God. God owes me blessing. But the gospel is God through Jesus Christ has given me a perfect record of righteousness which I receive by faith and then I live for him. But if that's what the gospel is, if that's what it means to be a Christian, to be a Christian is not to be trying hard and God is, you know, granting me blessing because I've tried so hard. But if I have received what Jesus has done so that he loves me in Christ, that means that I am simultaneously at the very same time. I am a sinner in myself. But in Jesus Christ, I'm completely loved. And that's the reason why both Hebrews 12 and Luke 11 are right. When I come into the presence of God, I do feel the awe. I do feel the reference because I'm a sinner before holy God, but in the gospel also, I'm this little child. And it's only therefore the gospel that creates the aggression and the submission that makes us into children. Well, somebody says, how can I become a child of God? Pretty simple. One is you've got to say, look what he says here. There's an amazing statement here in verse 12. He says, he says, if you, verse 13, if you then, though you are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children. Isn't that an amazing statement? Who's he talking to? The crowd? The people? No, he's talking to his disciples, his 12 apostles. And he says, just casually, you who are evil. I mean, he doesn't even say you who are flawed or you who are less than perfect or to err is human. Uh, or even, he doesn't even say you who are sinners. He says you're evil. He says you're evil. I mean, this shows that Jesus Christ, the most loving, the most accepting, the most kind man that ever walked the face of the earth, believed that every human being had a heart corrupt and filled with evil.

Hmm.

You're never going to be a child of God unless you're willing to admit that. You can't save yourself. But then secondly, if you want to become a child of God, you have to admit you're evil. But then secondly, you have to see that there was just once, only once, I mean, every human father and every divine father, when you ask for a fish, will not give you a scorpion. But it did happen once. When you ask for a fish, you won't get a snake. But it did happen once. Jesus Christ, the Son of God, came to earth, and instead of what he deserved, which is a fish, which is an egg, which is food, which is nurture. He got poison. So it did happen once. And when I see, he got the snake, he got eternal justice, so that I can have the food, so that I can really be, in other words, he was cast out of the family so I could be brought in. He was separated from the Father so I could be united with the Father. That changes me into a child. If, you know, in the very end, since this is the third time I've preached this today, so a couple of questions came up right afterwards. And I'm going to... I can't stay after this. I have to run. So let me anticipate the questions. One question comes like this. Well, hey, if that's true, if he knows what I need, and he's this wonderful person, and even if I don't get what I want, I'm just going to... Hey, well, then why am I praying? What's the use in praying? What's the big deal? Why should I pray? Why should I pray? And the answer is, God knows that you really aren't in a position to get the many good things he wants you to get. You don't get the many good things he wants you to get unless you get your perspective healed. And therefore, this is the deal. Here's the deal. He says, if you ask, I will give you great things, things that are good for you. Okay? If you don't ask, bets are off. Why? Because if I would give you great things, and you're not going through the healing of the perspective through the prayer, through the wrestling, through the adoration, through the confession, through the thanksgiving, through the petition, you're not going to be in a position to get those things. Those things will kill you. And therefore, here it is. I will only give you these great things if you pray for them. You have not because you ask not. Prayer does change things. Even though you don't always get what you want in request, but you always get what you need in your request. In some sense, there's no unanswered prayer. The second question that comes up is this.

Why is God turning me down right now? Why is he turning me down? A couple people have said to me. I'm asking for something that seems so natural and so right. Why is he turning me down? All I know is this. When Jesus turned Martha down, he didn't just say Martha. He said, Martha, Martha. Now, do you know in the Semitic language, the doubling of a word means intense emotion and affection. When David was mourning over his son, he didn't say, my son, Absalom. He said, Absalom, Absalom, my son, my son. It means intensity of emotion. And when Jesus looks at Martha, he's filled with love. He's not distant. He's not saying, oh, Martha, I'm sorry, I'm going to turn you down. Martha, Martha. He comes so close when he's turning you down. I don't know how the thing you're asking for might be a scorpion or a snake. I don't know. I don't understand that. And much of the evil in this world is not something that God designed. You know, the world was not designed to be this way. It's this way because of sin. But I do know that if he's not... If he's not responding to your request, I tell you he's responding to your need. He's loving you. That's what he's doing right now. I don't know what else he's doing, but he's loving you. His love in time past forbids me to think. He'll leave me at last in troubles to sink. My prayer, let me wrestle. Then he will perform. With Christ in the vessel, I can smile at the storm. That's printed in the front of your bulletin. Let's pray. Our Father, now for the last part of this sermon, I ask you to help us to pray this in. Help us to pray about prayer. Help us to sing about prayer. Help us to become people of prayer so that we can live aggressively,

dependently, submissively,

confidently, joyfully. Help us to be people like your Son, in whose name we pray. Amen.