We finished up a series on the hard sayings of Jesus, and we're about to go back into Ephesians and try to continue through that book as we've been doing in the evening service for 25 years now. But tonight, partly because I knew it would be something of an unusual night, sort of a gap between, I want to talk about a subject that I'm constantly talking about in pieces, but I do not remember the last time that to this body I went through and looked at this very important, very critical, and very practical Christian doctrine in a more full way. I'd like for us tonight to consider Hebrews chapter 7 together. together. Hebrews chapter 7, and I'm going to read from verses 19 to 27. The subject is the doctrine of the high priestly intercession of Jesus Christ. The high priestly heavenly intercession of Jesus Christ. The subject is that. The title is Jesus our advocate. Hebrews 7, 19 to 27.

Now the law made nothing perfect, and a better hope is introduced by which we draw near to God. It was not without an oath. Others became priests without any oath, but he became a priest with an oath when God said to him, the Lord has sworn and will not change his mind, you are a priest forever. Because of this oath, Jesus has become a guarantee of a better covenant. Now there have been many of prevented them from continuing in office. But because Jesus lives forever, he has a permanent priesthood. Therefore, he is able to save to the uttermost those who come to God through him, because he always lives to intercede for them. Such a high priest meets our need, one who is holy, blameless, pure, set apart from sinners, exalted above the heavens. Unlike other high priest, he does not need to offer sacrifices day after day, first for his own sins and then for the sins of the people. He sacrificed for their sins once for all, when he offered himself. For the law appoints as high priests men who are weak, but the oath which came after the law appointed the son who has been made perfect forever. This is God's word. That's an extremely important passage, and I would just like to lead you through it. And I would like, I'd like you to see that most of the time when we think about Christ's work for us, when we think of how he saved us and what he does for us, we almost always think of the past. Or we think of the future. We know in the past he died on the cross for us and he was raised. We know in the future he's returning and he's going to put everything right. And we almost always think of the past and the future when we think about how Jesus is saving us or saving us from our problems and the brokenness of the world and evil and sin.

I would like you to see tonight that maybe the most important thing that he does is what he's doing in the present, something he's doing this instant. This giving you the framework of the Old Testament tabernacle or temple. And it's trying to help you understand the work that Jesus does for us right now in the present tense

in terms of that temple. And we know from the Old Testament that the temple and the tabernacle, the tabernacle came first, it was a tent, the temple comes later, it was a building. But in both cases, there was an altar out front where an animal was slain. And then the people, they prayed in the outer court. But then there was a little cubicle. It was completely surrounded. It was a perfect square and cube, surrounded by curtains, heavy curtains. And inside that arena was the Holy of Holies. And the Holy of Holies was the place where the Shekinah glory of God dwelled. his radiance. He dwelled over the Ark of the Covenant, and only one person could go there, and only once a year, the high priest. And the high priest, once a year, would come and sacrifice an animal and go back into the Holy of Holies and represent the people. He would go there as the mediator, as the representative of the people. And he would pray for us, and he would offer a sacrifice for our sins and seek to procure the favor of God for the people for the coming year. Now, I think, if we're really going to understand this text, we have to do a little bit of translation. Because, unfortunately, for modern people, a temple doesn't seem to really make things coherent. the concept of the temple is not a familiar one. Blood, gore, incense, smoke, curtains, priests, people walking around in gowns, you know, sequined gowns with long beards, it doesn't exactly relate. And yet, this particular doctrine, I want to show you that this is saying that Jesus Christ is the real high priest who makes the real offering and goes really into the presence of God and there procures his love and grace and favor for us. The trouble with using the temple illustration is it doesn't relate very well to modern people, but the doctrine does. I'd like to show you that if you understand and then believe and then apply this truth to yourself, this is dynamite. This material, this doctrine is absolute dynamite. It will transform any life, any community, any church, any city, any city where people get it. Here's why. This is really about what you look like. This doctrine is about what you look like. What do you really look like? A couple of years ago, I read in the New York Times Magazine a very interesting column by a woman, and this is what she said. She says, more than 40 years of looking at myself in a mirror have left me, like so many women I know, almost totally ignorant of what I look like. In the mirror I see, not reality, but a composite of memories, wishes, half-truths, old photographs. I've learned to live with my shadow self. I know there's a real me lurking in there somewhere, but I can't seem to find her. And then the article goes on to say, I don't know what I look like. Every time I look in the mirror, I think. So finally, she went, this column goes on and says, she goes to a Manhattan image consultant and shells out $750 and says, find the real me. She figured at least here's a guy who'd be objective, and he was an expert. So he redoes her and says, this is what you really look at. This will bring out this, and this will bring out this. And so she comes home, the new her. She likes the way it looks. She looks so professional, so sophisticated, better than she's ever looked. So she walks in the door, and the column goes on and says, first thing that happens, her seven-year-old boy walks up, sees her, screams, and cries for 20 minutes. her husband is non-committal and she begins to the way the column ends and she says I think this is the real me but I don't look like mommy anymore who am I really and she's only talking about the physical but she's actually hinting at a deeper problem what do you really look like you know I find that no matter who I'm talking to, I'm talking to them through a role. To my parents, I'm a son. To my children, I'm a father. To my wife, I'm a husband. To the people who have heard me preach and who come to my church, it's so easy for me to see the radical difference with which people treat me, if you've been here and if you haven't been here. You know, to some of you, I'm a preacher, I'm a communicator. To some other people, I'm not, I'm something else. The point is, who am I? really, and what's really bad, what do I really look like? Everybody in this room has got some people who really don't like you at all. You might be a very popular minister. It doesn't matter how popular you are, there's a steady stream of people every year in the most popular ministries who leave out the back door saying what a terrible person that minister is. Many of you have had somebody walking around that thinks you're awful. Are you as bad as some of these people say? You've been in work situations where, as far as you know, you did the right thing. Other people think that you stabbed them in the back. You didn't get things done. You made me look bad. There are a lot of people walking around who really think you're a fairly terrible person. Who are you? What do you really look like? Are you beautiful or are you ugly?

Um, the Biblical answer is right here. How do you find out who you really are, and what you really look like, and whether you're really as good as those people say, are you really as bad as those people say, or whether you're kind of in the middle like you, say, how do you know? How do you know what you really look like? The answer is here. Number one, God's eye is the only objective eye. Not the image consultant who's objective, certainly not anybody else. God's eye is the only eye that counts. His view of you is the only one that matters. And secondly, if you come to the God in Christ, if you, as it says here, if you come to God through him, in God's sight, you are beautiful. You are a surpassing beauty. beauty. You are gorgeous. That's what it says. And if you get a hold of that, as Paul did, you can face anything. I know you don't have a hold of this. I know who you are. I've talked to you, and I see you, and none of us have got a grip on it like Paul does. You take a look at Romans 8. There's this incredible climax in Paul's letter called Romans 8, and at a certain point he says, if God is for us, who can be against us? He says, he goes on, if God is for us, who can be against us? Who shall bring a charge against God's elect? What can separate us from the love of Christ? And then he says, for it is God who justifies, who is to condemn? It is Christ who died, who is risen, yea, who intercedes for us at the right hand of God. Nothing will separate us from the love of God. Neither famine, nor nakedness, nor peril, nor sword. For I am persuaded that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor height, nor depth, nor anything in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. How can Paul talk like that? Because right in the center of it he says, because Jesus is interceding for me. That's the reason why he says, I don't she'll bring a charge against God's elect. It doesn't matter. I know I'm loved. It doesn't matter. God is for me. How does he know God is for him? All the time. And in that case, who can be against us? If I can look God in the eye, I can spit in the eye of the world, says Paul. And where does it come from? Right in the heart of that Romans 8. Right in the heart of that climax. He's got this towering, unassailable confidence. Where does it come from? Jesus Christ has died. Then he says, yea, rather, is risen. Yea, rather, is sitting at the right hand of the God, of the Father, making intercession for us.

Now, I think most of us have to admit that though maybe you've heard of this doctrine before, maybe you haven't heard of this doctrine before, but I think all of us have to agree it doesn't operate in our lives like that. Paul knows what he looks like. Paul doesn't look in the mirror and wonder. Paul knows what he looks like.

And what I want to show you is what this passage teaches us about the doctrine of the high priestly intercession of Christ. First of all, I want to look at what the teaching is, and then I want to show you how it applies, how it affects us if we really take it into our hearts. First of all, the teaching. This passage tells us priestly work, the criteria for this work, his credentials for his work, and thirdly, the results of his work, the nature, the credentials, and the results. First of all, the first thing he says is the nature of the work. It says in verse 25, therefore he is able to save completely to the uttermost those who come to God through him for he ever lives to intercede. What does intercede mean? It means to stand in. In 1 John 2, verse 1, it says, little children, I don't want you to sin, but if you sin, we have an interceder with the Father. In the old King James Version, it says, we have an advocate with the Father. And in some modern translations it says we have one who speaks on our behalf. Now as one of the most useful illustrations, in fact I would say it's an illustration that's changed my life, I discovered in an old book of sermons called Princeton Sermons preached by Charles Hodge in 1850 in a chapel of seminary students at Princeton. And in it he said this, he says you know modern people have a lot of trouble relating to intercession within the framework of a temple, but modern people do not have that much problem understanding intercession within the framework of a court. When the Bible says Jesus is our high priest, he means Jesus is your defense attorney in court, and that opened for me a tremendous understanding. Listen, let's just say that you are on trial, and therefore you have to defend yourself in court, unless you think much more highly of yourself than you should, you know you need a lawyer. Why? Because you're not qualified to go in there and defend yourself. Occasionally, there's people who think they can, they don't understand how it works, they're not qualified, they don't have the background, they don't have the smarts, they don't have the ability, they don't have the knowledge, so what do they do? You hire, an attorney, that attorney, through a legal transaction, becomes you in court. What do you look like to the court? You look like your attorney. If your attorney is eloquent, if your attorney is polished, if your attorney is skilled, you're eloquent, polished, and skilled. You may, in some cases, not even appear in court. You are your attorney, or the way Charles Hodge put it in that sermon preached so many years ago, you are lost in your advocate.

You're hidden in your advocate. Some people say this isn't fair. If my attorney screws up, I die. If my attorney does well, I live. Yeah, but that's the nature of the relationship. It's a legal relationship, your attorney stands in for you, and as a result, the benefits or

the failures of your attorney are imputed to you. The success of your attorney is your success. The failure of your attorney is your failure. That's the nature of the case. I think Charles Hodge is absolutely right. As soon as we begin to think not so much of the priesthood and think of the temple, that might work in many cultures for a lot of people, ancient people, as soon as we begin to realize that what it means for Jesus to be a high priest is that Jesus Christ becomes our defense attorney, our advocate. You're lost in your advocate. You are your advocate to the court. However your advocate looks to the court, you look like it. Don't hire a jerk, they say, because then you are a jerk legally. Hire someone who's able to represent you well. Well, that exactly is the nature of Jesus Christ's relationship to anyone who is a Christian. It's a legal thing. It's a status thing. There's a legal transaction, and voila, suddenly you become your attorney before the court, before the judge, before the bar.

We are all, the Bible says, standing in judgment, standing judged before the judgment seat the court of heaven, and at that court, if you're a Christian, Jesus stands today, now, as your advocate. Now, I know that what I'm telling you is good news, and yet those of you who are discerning will recognize that I have slipped a lot of bad news in here along with the good news. In other words, some of you are saying, wait a minute, this sounds all very good, but you are assuming this whole idea that there is this judgment seat in heaven and that there's this God, and I'm a guilty sinner, and I'm on trial for my life. Where do you get all that? That was very discerning of you to see that all this good news assumes the whole idea of a judgment seat, a heavenly judgment seat, a heavenly court, an eternal law of God before which we all stand condemned. And just briefly, I want to thank you and compliment you of seeing how I was slipping I'm slipping that in there and I won't do it again, I'll come right out and tell you, yes, that's the case. And I don't have to necessarily just say yes because the Bible says so. I believe you know it. I believe your own heart knows it. I urge you to listen to what your own heart says. You see, I'll say this twice. There is not just an indelibility about guilt, there's an immediacy about it.

Why is it you may be walking along and all of a sudden this slideshow starts to go on in your eyelids about all the things you've done wrong. Why is it sometimes your conscience can go crazy? Don't forget who's talking to you. I'm a professional moral person, they say. That's what a clergyman is, you know. It's my job to be a nice guy. It's my job to be religious. It's my job to do all these things. And yet let me tell you, sometimes when you're preaching, suddenly there's this laser light show that goes on in your conscience. And suddenly all kinds of amazingly vivid memories of things that you've done comes on, you know, in quadraphonic sound while you're preaching in your own head. And then the voice of the narrator comes on and it says, what are you doing here considering the things that you've done? And I personally don't think I'm alone. I believe everybody understands that. There's a funny thing about guilt. It's not just indelible, there's an immediacy about it. Sometimes it seems like our conscience is getting some kind of outside influence that stirs it up. And the Bible says it's because your conscience is a radio receiver picking up the prosecution. You do stand guilty before the judgment seat of heaven. There is a bar before which we all stand accused, and we know it.

I know that so many people try to say, if you feel guilty all the time, you've got to minimize that. You've got to say, well, everybody does it. You're as good as most people. That's really not fair. Because no matter how hard you try to tell yourself, I'm really a good person, I'm really a good person, you know, underneath, your conscience knows the truth. There is a judgment seat before which we all stand. There is a bar. We know it. You know it. That's the reason why you're so doggone defensive when people criticize you. Because down deep there's that basic insecurity that comes from knowing that we do stand before a judgment seat. We don't love our neighbors as ourselves. We don't love God like we ought to. We don't live up to our own standards. Yes, absolutely. There's an indelibility about guilt. Samuel Johnson, you know the great man of letters? When he was a young boy, his father used to maintain on market days a grocery booth, a grocery stand in a big marketplace in a place called Oxeter. And one day, his father asked Samuel to go and to be the person, to man the stand, you know, to be there and to run it. And he went and did something else. He never went there, and his And he never could overcome that. Years later, years later, his father had died. He could never overcome the regrets he had in his relationship with his father. And one day, just to see if he could do something about it, he went to Ad Oxeter and stood in that place 30 years, 40 years after the day in which he had sinned. And stood there in the driving rain at the spot where his father's grocery stand had been, bareheaded, trying like crazy to do something. to get rid of what he called his secret discontent. Out damn spot, but I can't get it out. He couldn't do it. All of us have got not just a kind of guilt that we just can't seem to get rid of, but our guilt somehow continually gets reinvigorated. There's an immediacy about it. We know that we're guilty. We know that we stand judged. We know that we have failed. We know. and therefore we desperately need an advocate. Now, the Bible tells us right here that Jesus Christ does stand as our advocate, and he's got two credentials in order to do the job. The first, you see, is in verse 27, he's perfect. The reason he can be an advocate for us, it says in verse 27, he's perfect. Unlike other high priests, he does not need to offer sacrifices day after day, first for his own sins. Any lawyer who's him or herself under indictment cannot stand in court. If you yourself need someone to represent you, you can't be a representative. And of course, we know that except for Jesus Christ, there isn't any human being who could possibly stand as advocate. So the first credential that he's got is a perfect life. He stands flawless representing you. No one can find any fault in Him. The court loves Him, but that's not His only credential. The second credential He's got is an absolutely infallible case because, you see, in verse 27 it says, He does not need to offer sacrifice first for His own sin and then for others. It says, He sacrificed for their sins once for all when He offered himself. Did you hear it? My life was completely changed when I realized that Jesus Christ was my advocate and that he had a case. To be honest with you, I didn't realize emotionally one of the reasons why I was not able to really live in unassailable confidence before the Father was because I'd heard for years, as a Christian, I'd heard for years that Jesus Christ was my high defense attorney. He was my advocate, and he stood before the Father, and he prayed for me. I'd heard that before, but it didn't really, didn't console me until I really, I read that Charles Hodge sermon, and I began to realize that the reason that Jesus is such a successful advocate is not simply because he's perfect and he's praying for me, because he has a case. Some of you know that it's possible for lawyers, when they realize they've got no case, to find all sorts of other ways to get their client it off. I mean, you can do histrionics. You can do hysterics. You can do blackmail. You can buy the jury. You can use flowery words. You can do cartwheels. You can do all sorts of things to try to wheedle and control and get sympathy and do all sorts of things when you don't have a case. And I always thought that's really how Jesus must have been defending me. I figured that every single day Jesus would get up and say Father, I represent my client Timothy James Keller and yes, he did do it again

but cut him a break please Father for my sake one more time, one more chance pretty please and I thought the Father looked at him and said well, alright and of course, my question was how long can Jesus do that? I mean, how many days? When does the Father finally say, even for you, I just can't let Timothy James Keller off? One more time. How many times is he going to break his promises? How many times is he going to say this and do another thing? Because, you see, I thought that Jesus was up there as a great lawyer without a case. The Bible here tells us that's not true at all. As a matter of fact, the reason that Jesus Christ is a perfect high priest absolutely infallible case. You know what that case is? I just read it. This is what Jesus is doing. Father, he says, I represent my brothers and sisters. Father, you are just. Your law says that if people treat one another this way, the wages of sin is death. Well, there. Look. look, see my blood. See my broken bones.

There's the wages. There's the payment. And Father, because you are a judge, you're a just, you could never take two payments for the same sin. That's the case. Verse 27. He sacrificed for their sins once for all. So what is he saying? He's saying, Father, I stand before this court, and I do not ask for mercy for my clients. I do not ask for mercy. You know, that's not a case, ask for mercy. To make a case means you show what the law is, you show it. What does he say? I do not ask for mercy for my brothers and sisters. I ask for justice. I have satisfied the law. I have paid. Look at my blood. You know, it says in the book of Hebrews, Hebrews, it says Jesus' blood speaks more graciously than the blood of Abel. Do you remember what happened when Cain killed Abel?

God comes to Cain and says, Cain, where is thy brother Abel? And Cain says, am I my brother's keeper? And God says, the blood of your brother Abel cries out from the ground to me. Cries out justice. And yet, Hebrews tells us that Jesus Christ's blood has also been spilled. It's laying out there in the ground. Look at the gore of it. But it's saying something else. It's crying something else. It's not crying out for justice. It's crying out grace, which means that Jesus is saying, I do not ask for mercy for my clients. Their sins are paid for. I ask for justice. You're Injustice demands the acquittal of my brothers and sisters. That is an infallible case. That's an absolutely infallible case. Whenever you ask for mercy, maybe, maybe not. Jesus is not asking for mercy. On the basis of his death, his substitutionary death, and on the basis of his life, his substitutionary intercession, the law of God and the righteousness and justice of God is completely now demanding our acquittal, demanding it.

The justice of God, the Bible says, makes the mountains themselves look like specks of dust. If you put yourself in this part of the scale and you put the justice of God in the other part of the scale, you know, you'll be completely outweighed. But now the justice is on our side.

And that's the reason why it says, He says, He is able to save to the uttermost those who come to God through him. Now do you understand? Listen, you see, it has nothing to do with what you've done, has nothing to do with your record. It doesn't matter tonight whether or not you have done things that you will never be able to tell anybody. It doesn't matter what you have accomplished. It doesn't matter how alienated you are. He is able to save to the uttermost, a reaching word. Because now Jesus Christ stands before the Father, and for anyone who has received him as Savior, he says, I demand justice. You must accept, you must love, you must forgive, you must acquit. And what that means is that when the Father looks at you, you're lost in your advocate. It's just like Paul said when he was writing Philemon. You know, Onesimus was a slave, and Philemon was his owner. And Paul writes Philemon, and he says, Onesimus is about to come to you. I want you to grant his freedom. Onesimus is about to come to you. Receive him as if you were receiving me. And if he owes you anything, charge it to my account. That's exactly what Jesus Christ says to the Father. Receive them as you receive me. And if they owe you anything, I've paid it. Look. And as a result of this, a Christian is somebody who never worries about today or tomorrow, whether or not they're going to slip in or out. The Father looks at you and what do you see? The Bible tells us that Jesus is the high priest. Go look and see what the high priest wore. Go look at it. The high priest wore an ephod, a breastplate, and on it precious jewels on which the names of the tribes, the sons of Israel, were inscribed. And so you see Jesus Christ goes before the Father and your name is engraved in absolute beauty and glory over his heart. And when the Father sees you, he sees something exquisite. Why? Not because of anything you've done, not because of your moral efforts. It happened the minute you said, be my advocate. I can't appear before the court in myself. If I try to do that, I'll be slaughtered. Of course, that's just common sense. Nobody goes before the court without an attorney, without a good one, you've got a perfect one. And you've got one who's got the case. Because of his perfect credentials, because of his perfect life, and because of his perfect case, he is able to save to the uttermost those who come to the Father through him. Now listen, this is such a perfect

lawyer. In this case, Jesus Christ doesn't just get you acquitted, he gets you all the rights and privileges. You are now lost in him. You are liable for everything that Jesus is liable for. You are to get everything that he deserves. That's exactly what the whole image means. That's what the metaphor means. That's what the doctrine means. For example, why can you have the Holy Spirit? It says in the book of Luke, God gives the Holy Spirit to those who obey him. him? Well, you know, the Holy Spirit, how we love to have the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is the lifeblood of God. It's the power of God, the joy, the nature of God, the strength of God, but I don't obey him. How can I get it? Very simple. How do you get to him? How do you get the Holy Spirit? John 16, Jesus says, I have prayed for you so that the Father will send you another advocate, will send you the Holy Spirit. You have the Holy Spirit completely and totally through intercession of Christ. Or here's another one. Prayer itself. Your ability to pray to God is totally a function of the high priestly intercession of Jesus Christ. It says, for example, in Psalm 69, if I cherish iniquity in my heart, he will not hear me. Good night. Well, then why should he hear anybody? We're all cherishing iniquity in our heart. So that's the end of that. But Hebrews 15 says, because we have a high priest who has been touched with our affirmities, who understands us, let us draw near. Prayer is completely a function of his high priestly intercession. I'll tell you one more thing. Your assurance and your certainty that he will never let you go, that you will never lose him, and he will never lose you, all on the basis of the intercession of Christ. In Luke chapter 22, before Peter's about to deny and betray his master, Jesus comes to him and says, Simon, Simon, Satan wanted to have you and wanted to sift you like wheat. He demanded to have you, but I have prayed for you. So when you turn, strengthen the brethren. Now, did you hear that? You know, Judas betrayed Jesus too. Why is it that six weeks later, Judas was rotting in the field of Akaldama and Peter was leading a movement that was about to change the history of the world? You know why? Because Peter was smarter, Peter was better, Peter was more resilient. I have prayed for you. The transaction between Peter and Jesus that made Jesus his advocate Judas and Jesus. And you notice Jesus doesn't say, I have prayed for you, so if you turn, does he? What does he say? I have prayed for you, so when you turn. Why? Because Jesus has never, ever, ever, ever, can't ever have a prayer for one of his own turned down, because he's got an infallible case, and he lives to intercede for you. It's his life. You know, when you live to do something, that means you get joy in it, you can never stop doing it, you can never get enough of it, he lives to intercede. That's an incredible thing. It doesn't just say he intercedes, it doesn't just say he lives and intercedes, it says he lives to intercede, for you and for me. Think of that. He says, that's what I'm built for, that's what I'm here for, that's my meaning in life. I mean, I'm using anthropomorphisms, but it's a frightening thing just to realize he is dedicated to you. Now, friends, if this is all true, don't you see what a difference it makes? Only briefly. Number one, you've got some guilt in your life. You've got some things that make you feel unworthy. Ha.

There was a woman who had, this is 200 years ago, a man named Hal Harris, I think it was. He was only 15 years old. yet, but he was going to become a great preacher later on, and he had one of his aunts, a maiden aunt, had really had a very hard life, never got married, always lived in poverty, and she was about to die, in fact, everybody thought she had died, she'd slipped away, and people said, well, it's just terrible, what a hard life she's had, and now she has to die of this, she's only in her 40s, she's had a hard life, she's always been poor, she's always been poor, and it just doesn't seem right, and she seemed to hear that, and she suddenly opened her eyes, and she sat up, and she looked at and how Harris never forgot this and she looked at him and said who calls me poor I am rich and I'm about to stand before my lord as bold as a lion that was her last words you think that had an infant an impact on the 15 year old you see well may the accuser roar of sins that I have done I know them all and thousands more Jehovah knoweth none she's bold as a lion who calls me it doesn't matter what I've done.

If I can look the justice of God in the eye, then I can spit in the eye of the world. Nothing will cow me. So first of all, that's the end of your guilt. Secondly, it's the end of disappointment. If you understand that Jesus Christ is your righteousness, he is your worthiness, he is that which enables you to stand before the Father, you won't be as disappointed. You know why? Most of the things that disappoint us are things that we have put our hopes in to give us meaning in life. This didn't come through, this didn't come through, this didn't come through. What were these things that we've lost? What are these things that have so shattered us? These were things that were our righteousness. Or I'll put it another way. Most, I'll say this twice, most of our desires for success are really efforts to be for ourselves what Jesus only can be for us. most of our desires for success are actually our efforts to be for ourselves when only Jesus can really be for us there are efforts to make ourselves feel like we're really worthwhile we really count there are efforts to be our own advocates our own defenses before the bar if only I could get this if only I could get this if only I could get this and it doesn't happen and we're shattered a Christian no longer is a Christian up and down emotionally over things No longer, because none of these things can stand before you and be your advocate. None of these things prove that you're worthy. Jesus is your worthiness.

John Newton put it, if I can find it, and though I feel despised, forgot, yet God, my God, forgets me not. And he is safe and must succeed for whom Christ promises to plead.

and you know, if you want nobility, if you want greatness, sometimes I read the journals and the biographies of the great men and women of God, of history, and I say, where did they get what they had? Sometimes they were able to be so bold and so confident and actually so full of joy that they could face down tyrannical kings and entire armies. Nothing fazed them. Were they made of a different race? Were they made of different stuff than us? No, they availed themselves of their advocate. They that you and I have.

One last thing.

If you, you see, if you take this in, it's the end of the guilt, it's the end of constantly being disappointed, it's the end of the self-consciousness and it's the end of the meekness in the wrong kind of way. One more thing. If we would really build a church of people that had even a significant minority

practicing and applying this doctrine every day, knowing that Jesus is our advocate, knowing that we're lost in our advocate. Do you realize what kind of church we'd have? It would be a church in which worship would be great because, you see, Christians expect to go right into the presence of God. That's the reason Jesus says, you will see angels ascending and descending on the Son of Man. Remember Jacob's ladder? He saw angels coming up and down between earth and heaven. heaven, Jesus Christ will take you, because you're perfect in the Father, right into the throne room of God. He can bring you right in. There's no reason why we shouldn't expect that presence to come breaking into our lives every time we meet for worship. And there's something else. A church as filled with people who believe this would also be a church that's not at all afraid to tell other people what he's done for them. Because you see, the gospel is you're more sinful than you ever more accepted and loved than you ever dared hope. And, of course, those two things make us both humble and bold at the same time, and there's nothing more winsome than that. If you're humble and not bold, it's because you think about your sin without thinking of the intercession of Christ, and, of course, you're not that effective in talking to people. If, on the other hand, you're bold and not humble, it means that you think that you're pretty good, and you're forgetting the fact that you're actually a wicked sinner, and the only reason you're able to stand before for the Father is because you're hidden in your advocate. But when the boldness and humility go together, there's a confidence, a lack of self-consciousness, but at the same time, a sensitivity and a humility. There's no reason why we should not be able to communicate what Christ has done for us and attract people. There is nothing more attractive than the kind of bold, humble character that arises out of a grasp of the advocacy of Christ for you before the Father at this moment. Do you have that kind of attractiveness in your life? Do you have that kind of confidence? Do you have that kind of stability? Do you have that kind of guilt-free living? Then I say, avail yourself of this one. look to him remind yourself of what he's done and I can't I don't hope nobody thinks I'm glib unless he is your advocate because you come to him and you give yourself to him now if he's not your advocate when you appear before the judgment seat the Bible tells us he will appear as your prosecutor and he will be just as effective in that role as he is in this one. I don't say that glibly. I don't say that to scare you. I just haven't expounded the doctrine unless I tell you the truth. Because in the middle of the good news is embedded the bad news. But the good news will overwhelm it if you come to the Father through him. He is able to save to the uttermost. Let's pray. Our Father, I thank you that your Son is our advocate. it, and I pray that no one here will face you on the last day without him, standing before

with his righteousness and his beauty adorning our head.

No condemnation now we dread. Jesus and all in him is mine, alive in him my living head, and clothed in righteousness divine. Bold I approach the eternal throne and claim the crown in Christ my own. Father, I pray that everybody in this room will be able to sing that as their own hymn from their heart tonight. I pray that in Jesus' name. Amen.
