Let me read you one verse to offer a kind of concluding thought. John was talking about the need to go into communities of need and minister in both word and deed. Some of you, maybe many of you, had trouble pegging John. See, I found this out. If you don't know a speaker,

in the beginning, you don't listen to what he says. You spend a lot of time trying to put him in a category, trying to figure out where is he coming from. But what you mean is, how can I peg him? What is this guy? Most of you are used to churches that either, that are kind of divided along a kind of traditional liberal to conservative spectrum. Liberal churches tend to minister in deed but not word. There's not a lot of word. They can't preach the historic message. They don't talk about a transcendent God who's broken into time and space and Jesus the Savior. They don't talk about a transcendent God who's broken into time and through Christ. We can be renewed from the inside out through the new birth and the Holy Spirit. Those churches don't speak the word, but they talk a lot about deed. They do a lot of that. They minister, and they serve, and they educate, and they feed. On the other hand, you have a lot of churches that we might call conservative churches. They minister in word but not deed, just like the churches that minister in deed but not word. They preach the gospel, and they do a little bit of token, emergency relief, and they do seasonal baskets for the poor. And you were listening to John, and you were trying to figure out which one of these guys is he. I mean, is he a fundamentalist who doesn't care about the poor, doesn't believe that racism is a problem, just preaches the word, but, you know, tells people to stick with the status quo? And sometimes he sounded like that, didn't he? Ah, but then he turned around and started saying things that sounded pretty radical. Why? Why can't, why is it difficult to listen to a guy like John? Personally, I think it's because he represents biblical religion, which says we move and move, and we have to minister in word and deed. Deed without word, word without deed are ineffective. One little verse, Genesis 3 verse 21. Some of you know I've been preaching on Genesis. In Genesis 3 verse 21, it says, And the Lord God made garments of skin for Adam and Eve and clothed them. And when I was studying the chapter, I read all these different commentaries, and the commentators all had different opinions about what that meant. Adam and Eve, you know, were naked and ashamed, and God clothed them. And one commentator said, It's obvious that the reason God clothed Adam and Eve was because they were physically naked. The world had changed. Now it was cold. They needed clothes just as a physical need. They would get sick. They would die. They were physically naked, and God simply met a physical need. And then I would read another commentator that says, No. God clothed Adam and Eve because they were emotionally naked. They were subject to anxiety and insecurity. They needed privacy. And therefore, it was emotional support. And then another commentator would say, No. The reason that God clothed Adam and Eve with skins was because He was showing that He was going to cover their sins through Christ, that all of us know that we're sinful, that all of us know we're cut off from God, and that in Christ, our sins are covered. In Christ's sacrifice, our sins are put away. Blessed is the one whose sins are covered, to whom God does not impute our iniquity. And so every one of the commentators would argue. They were physically naked. God was meeting a physical need. They were emotionally naked. God was meeting an emotional need. They were spiritually naked. God was meeting a spiritual need. Guess what? The beauty and the glory of that text is that all the commentators for once were right, that in a single stroke, God showed you everything that John was trying to get across. And the commentators would argue, Well, I'm not going to give you the glory and the brilliance of biblical faith. And that was the first social action. That was the first emotional supportive counseling, and that was the first deed of evangelism all in one stroke. God does not separate those things. You can't separate those things. They stand and fall together. They come together. Because I have been covered, because you and I have been covered with Christ, we look at the physically naked and we cover them. We look at the broken people and we say, That's how I look spiritually until Christ covered me. Because I've been covered in Christ, I cover the emotionally naked, the people who are vulnerable, the people who are in grief. I come alongside of them. I know how to support them. I'm not harsh and I'm not cold. I don't expose them. See, a Christian is someone, because you're covered in Christ, you emotionally cover the naked. And lastly, of course, because you've been covered in Christ, you spiritually cover people. You watch them working so hard and you watch them so anxious to make it in life and buy all those possessions. What are they trying to do with all those possessions? They're trying to cover their nakedness. They're actually, they don't know it, they're trying to deal with something that only Christ can deal with. A Christian, the Christian church brings the resources of Christ to bear on all of the alienations caused by sin, physical and emotional and spiritual, all of them, all at once. That's the reason you can't peg John Perkins. Because you can't peg biblical religion. It doesn't fit in that old liberal conservative spectrum. I tell you, whenever I talk to a reporter or somebody who's trying to figure out our church, I know how desperately that reporter is trying to put us in a spot. Just like you're trying to put John in a spot. It doesn't work. He's been immersed in the Scripture too long. He understands the biblical faith. The real question is, will this emerging community be as biblical as John, be as biblical as Genesis 3, 21? Will we go out and close the door to the Bible? And cover all the nakedness because Jesus Christ has covered us. Let's pray together. Our Father, all we ask tonight now is that you would not only help us to just walk away inspired by John's testimony. I pray, Lord, that what he has said tonight will inspire us in a multidimensional way. Father, I know there's some people here tonight who have been brought here, who have come here because they're spiritually seeking. There always are. And I pray that as they listen to John, listening to a man who has maybe a radically different experience than they, that they see the glory of the gospel and that they see that they need to receive you as their Savior. And I pray that there will be some people here who will be covered spiritually with Christ because of what they heard tonight. And I pray also, Father, that many of us will be moved to see the radical and multidimensional nature of the gospel. of ministry and of what the resources that you've given us in the gospel really can do for this world. And I pray that we might, as Jesus, your son, was sent into the world, we might be sent. And as he moved in with us, let us move in with the people in need. I pray, Lord, oh Lord God, that our church will just become a church, that the church of New York City and the Christians of New York City all over the city will begin to live out in their own walk what you did with us when you sent Jesus Christ to cover our nakedness. Let us minister and, like Jesus, be mighty in word and deed. Now, Father, we pray for these things and we ask for them because we believe they'll glorify you, so we ask them in Jesus' name. Amen.
