Excuse me, I'm getting over a cold and so my voice isn't what it ought to be. So it's not as exuberant as it ought to be, but I find that when I'm sick I sound more pathetic. And therefore, you know, what I lose in force I gain in pathos, I suppose. So that's the reason why today we're speaking about the cross. Next Sunday we'll speak about the grave. And it's only fair because I've got a kind of old rugged cross voice today, not an empty tomb voice. Galatians 6. We remove ourselves from the Gospel of John and our series through the Gospel of John. And this week and next week, because of all around the world, this week Christians are thinking about and observing Jesus' death on the cross. And next Sunday, Christians all around the world are observing and celebrating the resurrection. So this week and next week we will look at two passages. One today on the cross and one next week. On the resurrection. I'm just reading from Galatians 6 verses 12 through 16. Listen. Those who want to make a good impression outwardly are trying to compel you to be circumcised. The only reason they do this is to avoid being persecuted for the cross of Christ. Even those who are circumcised obey the law, yet they want you to be circumcised that they may boast about your flesh. May I never boast. Except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, through which the world has been crucified to me and I to the world. So neither circumcision or uncircumcision means anything. What counts is a new creation. Peace and mercy to all who follow this rule, even to the Israel of God. This is God's word. And we're especially looking at this verse. May I never boast. Except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom the world has been crucified to me and I to the world. The old King James Bible says, God forbid that I should glory, save in the cross of Christ my God. Now, the context for this statement by Paul is fairly important. There were a group of teachers that had come to this church. That Paul had started the church in Galatia, and he was writing to them now. So teachers had come to this church and given them a different scheme of what it meant to be a Christian. And I'll put the two schemes this way. Paul always said, believe in Christ,

be saved, and obey the law. And these teachers were saying, believe in Christ, obey the law, and be saved. Two very different orders. Two very different approaches. In other words, the teachers of the law were saying, make your boast in the cross of Christ and your good works and your performance. And Paul says, you must boast only in the cross. Now, to explain what Paul is saying, we're going to spend a few moments. In this verse, Paul says, may I boast in nothing except in the cross of Christ, whereby the world is crucified to me and I to the world. What Paul is saying is this. He says, the day that I made the cross the governing principle of my life, I boast in it. I exalt in it. It becomes a central thing to me. The day I really grasped the cross, maybe some of you have believed all your life in the Jesus Christ of God. It's not on the cross. But Paul says, the minute that I understood the cross, it revolutionized my relationship to the world. He says, the minute, the day, the time I understood the cross, it so changed me that no longer does the world control me. The world is dead to me and I'm dead to the world. It can't scare me anymore. It can't drive me anymore. That's the reason why Paul expounds on this in verse 15 when he says, and 16, when he says, peace and mercy to all who live by this rule. What he means is, he says, until I began to not worry about the world, I didn't have peace. I had anxiety. Until I did not fear the world, I didn't have compassion. I had hardness of heart. But now peace and mercy, security and compassion have come into my life because the world does not bother me anymore. So he's saying, if you really understand the cross and the teaching in the Bible about the cross, it revolutionizes your attitude toward daily life. Has that happened to you? Don't say, I've always believed in the cross of Jesus Christ. Has the cross ever begun to change the way in which you deal with life? Has it revolutionized your life? Is your life characterized by peace and mercy, by security and compassion? If not, I charge you to consider that maybe you don't understand the cross of Jesus. Now, if you want to get this rule in your life so that you have the same peace and mercy, there's three things that the text tells us. First of all, and I'll just mention them and I'll go through them. Step one, a Christian is somebody who has accepted the offensiveness of the cross. The cross is an offense. The cross is an insult. The cross is offensive. It's disturbing. It's repulsive. The Bible says, A Christian has felt the offense of the cross and has accepted it. Then secondly, the Christian moves on from not just accepting the offense of the cross but boasting in it, exalting, rejoicing in it, bragging in it. And then thirdly, the text tells us, if you have accepted the offense of the cross and then secondly, you have begun to boast in it, thirdly, you will experience a freedom. The world is crucified to you and you are crucified in the world. Has that happened to you? Let's look and see what those three things are. First of all, the Bible everywhere talks about the cross being an offense. In Galatians 5.11, not the passage we just read, but back in chapter 5, verse 11, Paul says, Brothers, if I'm preaching circumcision, why am I still being persecuted for the offense of the cross? He says in verse 12 of the passage we just read, he says the reason that people want to add obedience to the law to believing in the cross is to get rid of the offense of the cross. Now listen, you must listen carefully. I'll explain everything. Paul says the cross all by itself saves you. And these other teachers said, Well, it's good to believe in the cross, but you also have to be a decent person, be a good person. Paul says, No, I boast in the cross alone. God forbid that I should boast, save in the cross. That means, may I boast in nothing but the cross. And he says the reason that people are trying to say, Well, yes, you have to believe in Jesus, but you also have to be a good and decent person, is they're trying to get out from under the offense. What is the offense of the cross? Let me tell it to you briefly, then let me explain it. I want you to know, if you have never sensed the repulsiveness and offensiveness of the cross, you haven't understood Christianity. The cross teaches that your sins are so bad that they even created a problem for God Almighty. This offends almost everybody, by the way. I'm going to show you. The cross teaches that your sins are so bad. Now, tell me how this plays in Manhattan. You know, you talk about the offense. Listen. The Bible teaches that the cross, the cross teaches that your sins are so bad that it creates even a problem for God Almighty. And therefore, Jesus had to die, and therefore, it's only through the cross that you can come to God. Period. Only through the cross of Christ, no other way. That's offensive. Let me explain. God said, let there be light. That's all he did. And there was light. It doesn't say God said, let there be light, and then he went to work on it for three days. You know, he didn't say, let there be light, and then go down into his sort of his workshop, and, you know, kind of put it in the lathe. And, you know, he didn't do that. Let there be light, and there was light. Let there be day, let there was day. Let there be grass, and there was grass. Let there be man and woman, and there was man and woman. But God could not say, let there be forgiveness. And you think about this. Everything else God ever did, he did it like that. Let there be, and there was. And yet, when he decided to forgive us, it took him thousands of years. Galatians 4 says, in the fullness of time, God sent forth his son, born under the law, to redeem those under the law, and forgive our sins. God, therefore, if I can say it reverently, the cross teaches us that, believe it or not, our sins were so serious that it even created a problem for God Almighty. And you say, what? Huh? What? Here's why. The cross teaches us that forgiveness is never easy. Forgiveness is always expensive. Nobody ever forgives a sin without paying for a sin. Do you hear that? Sins never go into the thin air. Somebody has to pay. Even if you forgive, you're paying for them. Now, to explain this, I can start with an easy example. Some sins are fairly easy to actually add up in a monetary way. So, for example, if I lend you my umbrella,

and you say, oh, I'll give it back to you tomorrow, but I've got to go out, so I lend you my umbrella, and you get in a taxi, and then you leave it in the taxi. Oh, you feel so bad. Oh, I know. Taxi safe. Lost and found. They give you the lost and found number. Forget it. A lost and found number. You know, you left it in the taxi. It's gone. And so what you do is you come back and you say, I feel so bad. I'm so sorry. Please, let me pay for it. Now, the sin of having left, been thoughtless and having left, you know, not being careful enough, having left the umbrella in, means this. Either I'm going to pay for it, or you're going to pay for it. If I say forget it, forget it. I don't care. You're a good friend. You've done many things. Don't forget it. What does that mean? Has that sin gone into thin air? No way. I've absorbed the cost of the umbrella. I'll have to pay for it. I'll have to go buy another one. Or maybe the other person can make restitution. But either way, if the person makes restitution and gives me five bucks, or if I say forget it and I absorb the five dollars, the forgiveness has not gone into the air, has it? It has been paid for. The debt has got to be paid someplace. There's no neutrality. Now, that's easy. Let me give you a harder illustration. We're not talking about money. We're talking about personal anguish. You're dating somebody for six months, seven months, eight months. And you come to realize this person has been using you. This person is selfish. This person is not the person that you want to be with. And you break up. This person has wronged you, has hurt you. And it basically has cost you what? Has cost you at least seven or eight months of your life. Nobody can give you that back. Now, you've only got two things you can do with it. What are you going to do? One is you stay angry and you exact the cost. There's lots of ways of doing that. There's lots of ways you can do that. You can gossip about the person. You can say mean things about the person. You can do everything you can to make the person pay. Or you can forgive. Now, you know, you must forgive. You know why? The great irony about forgiveness is the only way that a person can really continue to control you is if you fail to forgive them. The only way the person can really beat you is if you fail to forgive them. So you forgive. What does it mean to forgive? What it means to forgive is that you absorb the cause. You absorb it. That means I'm not going to exact it from you. I'm not going to make you pay. I'm not going to hold you liable anymore. I absorb the cost for those seven months of my life. And that means you've paid for it. You can't forgive somebody without paying. Sins do not go into the air. Let me get even more profound about this. The fact is that many of us many sins maybe even most sins can never be paid for. You see back in the middle of the 20th century there was a group of psychologists that came along that began to stress responsibility. People like Hobart Maurer and William Glasser who wrote books like Reality Therapy. And they stressed this. They said the only way to deal with your guilt and the only way to come back to self-respect is to take full responsibility for your wrongdoing and make restitution and reparation. These men began writing books that said if you take away responsibility diminished responsibility means diminished humanity. Children aren't responsible because they're not really they're just children. Mentally retarded people aren't responsible for what they do. Animals aren't responsible for what they do. But if you want to be a human being you have to take total responsibility. You can't blame your background. You can't blame your family. You can't blame what other people have done to you. And these men these psychologists all said the only way to mental health is to admit your wrongdoings. Now this is very close to the 12-step mentality too. You admit your wrongdoings you take full responsibility for your wrongdoings and you make restitution and reparation for them. Now when those guys were doing this back in the early 70s a man named John Stott a pastor came and talked to one of those psychologists and sat down and said he appreciated what the psychologist was saying but what about forgiveness? And the psychologist said what? What do you mean? He says well here's a man that has done things wrong he takes responsibility and he goes to a person that he's wronged and he says I'm going to repent. I'm going to make it good to you. And the psychologist says yes that's the right. But what if the person says well you don't have to I forgive you. And the psychologist was named Hobart Maurer says to John Stott we must never talk about forgiveness. We must never talk about forgiveness. Because that lets the patient off the hook. The only way that he can really get back to self-respect is if he completely pays for that sin himself. Now I want you to know something. You can do that when the sin is an umbrella. The fact is if you sit back and you think about what you have done to some people you'll begin to realize that you would have to spend the rest of your life doing restitution and you would never pay it back. In other words what happens to a sin when the cost of restitution exceeds your net worth? How will you ever get out from under it? You see you know what we're saying? Number one forgiveness is never a matter of just saying forget it. Somebody pays. Never has a person ever been forgiven without it being paid for. Number two in many cases maybe even most cases human beings cannot pay back their debt. You can't make it good. You can't do it. Have you ever tried? Go to somebody who you've wronged that you've cheated out of a year or two of their life and say what do I have to do to make it good? You'd never get out of prison. You'd never pay it back. And that's the reason why that's the reason why the Bible says God had to send forth his son. Somebody has to pay. What if your brother was killed by a criminal and you go into court and the criminal gets in front of the judge and says I'm sorry I really feel bad about what I did. I'm very sorry. And the judge says fine, you're free. What would you do? You jump up and you say I can't possibly absorb the cost of this. I can't forgive him. It exceeds my net worth and society cannot afford to forgive him either. Because if we let criminals go free like this the society if it absorbs that blow it won't even be a society anymore. Somebody's got to pay. Everybody knows this. It's a fundamental it's logical it's emotionally understandable it's common sense. Every sin has got to be paid for. Who's going to pay it? You and I cannot even pay for our own sins against each other let alone God. Because we do not have the capital. And the Bible says God sent forth his son who knew no sin to become sin for us that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. Now here's where the offense of the cross is. Jesus did not come down here to pay for your sins by paying a fine. Your sins are capital offenses. He had to be tortured. He had to experience a bloody death. And that means that your sins were so bad that even God Almighty had to find a way of paying for them and the only way he could pay for them was with his only son. Your penitence doesn't work. I don't know how many people have said to me what's the importance of the cross? Why does Jesus have to die? Why can't I just go to God and just say I'm sorry? And God is a loving God. He'll forgive me, won't he? And the answer is no judge in the world can act that way and you yourself can't really act that way. That's the reason that Bishop Wescott, B.F. Wescott, the great Anglican bishop of a hundred years ago, said, and I quoted it in the bullet, and he says, superficially, forgiveness always looks on the surface to be very easy. But if you really reflect and understand, you begin to realize it's the most mysterious and difficult of things. Forgiveness can never be simple. Sins can never go into the air. God can't say, forget it. The world will come crashing down. Heck, judges can't even do that. The society would come crashing down. How much less can God do that? God had to have his son die. If you think that your sins were not that important, were not that bad, you're like every child I know in the whole world. The children will always say, yes, I broke the rule, but I deserve to be punished for it. I mean, yes, what I did was wrong, but it's not that bad. And the cross stands there over every person in the world and says, yes, they were that bad. This is what it took. You know, Peter didn't get it. In Matthew 16, Jesus says to Peter, who am I? And Peter says, thou art the Christ, the son of the living God. You're the Christ, the son of the living God. And then as soon as he says that, Jesus begins to tell Peter that I have to die. And Peter says, you don't have to die. I forget that. You don't have to die. What's all this death stuff? You know what Jesus has to say to Peter? He has to say, get thee behind me, Satan. You are a stumbling block. You know what he's saying? Peter, you don't get it yet. You think that my being the son of the living God is enough. You think that serving me is enough. You think that coming to me and saying, oh, Lord, I want to follow you is enough. Forget it. My being God isn't enough. You serving me isn't enough. I've got to die. Peter was offended by the idea that Jesus had to die. Now, he didn't understand it. It wasn't necessary. You're God. I love you. I'm trying to be a good person. I'm following you. What the heck more is there? And Jesus says, you still don't get it. Peter was offended by the cross. Unless the cross, unless Jesus dies, you're in trouble. Unless the cross, the fact that you want to be good and you're trying your best, if anything, short of the death of Christ, was sufficient to get you to God, would God have ever put forth his son? If moral effort, if good intentions, if penitent heart, if that was enough, certainly God would never have sent forth Jesus Christ. But he had to. And you see, that's where the cross is so offensive. Your sins are that bad. And that also means that only through the cross of Christ can anybody come to the Father. Oh, people hate that. They hate that. They say if a person is decent and they may be a good humanist or they may be a good Muslim or some other religion, they don't believe in the cross, if they're good and they really are sorry for their sins, why can't they go to God? Why can't God just forgive them? That shows you still don't get it, Peter. You still don't get it. If I'm on the tramway, you know, going across the East River, the Roosevelt Island tram, and we're going along just fine, and I say to you, hey, let me show you how much I love you. I love you. Let me just show you how much I love you. And I open the door and I throw myself into the river. What would you say? Would you say, man, now there's a man who really loved me. Would you say, how wonderful, how marvelous, how moved I am? No, you'd say, that poor guy. What was wrong with him? Because you see, you were getting across the East River just fine on your own. My dying for you like that is ridiculous. It not only doesn't show you love, it's nonsense. Because you're getting across on your own. Let me ask you a question. If anybody could get to God on their own by moral efforts and by being sorry for their sins, apart from the cross of Christ, don't you see that Jesus dying on the cross, unless it's the only way to God, is absolute nonsense? It makes no sense. See, if on the other hand, we're up on the tramway, and the tramway gets stuck, and the operator turns and says, oh my word, look, the cables are breaking. We're about to go down. If I save you, but risk and lose my life in the process, then you'll say, now there was a man who loved me. Why? Because it was the only way. If Jesus is not the only way to God, then what the Bible says he did on the cross is absolute nonsense. Worse than that, it's a distortion. It's pathological. It's ridiculous. As ridiculous as if I throw myself into the river, when you're getting across the river, just fine without my death. The offense of the cross is that the only way to God is through Jesus' death. Believing in it. Receiving it. The offense of the cross is, no matter who you are, no matter how nice or how good you think you are, your sins are this serious. Don't you see why this offends everybody? Hey, on the one hand, it offends the modernist, who thinks it's so narrow-minded to talk about Jesus being the only way to God. The cross absolutely offends the worldly mindset that believes it's the only way to God. In the innate goodness of human beings. The worldly mindset that believes in self-expression and the innate goodness and self-reliance. And the idea that every religion is just a different way to God. So it offends the modern mindset. But I tell you, friends, it also offends the Victorian. It offends the religious person. Oh, it sure does. Because they sit there and say, do you have me to believe that a good person who has lived his or her whole life in the church is a good person? Do you have me to believe Sacrificing for other people. Living a very moral life. Being a good father or mother and so forth is in the exact same condition as a person who's lived his or her whole life in lives of violence and crime and self-aggrandizement and so forth. And of course the cross says, yes. Yeah, here's a person who's living in the gutter and here's a person who's living, you see, in high society. And one kind of sin is sex and sexual licentiousness and violence. The other kind of sin is self-righteousness and bias and prejudice and materialism and pride. But they're all the same. Friends, the cross has always offended everybody. It offends the prude and the pagan. It offends the Victorian and the modernist. You can never get Christianity into left or right categories or old-fashioned or modern categories. It offends everybody. It's so democratic. It's against everyone. Now, do you understand this? Do you understand this? The cross teaches that everybody is a hopeless sinner. It took the Son of God to die for you. The whole structure of Jesus' death makes no sense unless it's the only hope. Now, the more I push that, you know what's happening? I'll tell you. The cross judges everybody. You are either being repulsed by this idea or you're being lifted up and attracted into it. You will either be offended or you will boast in the cross. No neutrality. The only people who are neither offended nor boasting in the cross are people who don't get it. They haven't heard the teaching. They haven't read what the scripture says. But if you begin to be exposed to the teaching and you begin to hear it coming at you, you are forced to either being offended and stumbling and saying, I want nothing to do with this or else begin to say, this is gorgeous. This is beautiful. This is my only hope. This is the way. This is the truth. This is the life. The cross judges you. Don't you feel it? It polarizes us all. It pushes us to the extremis. A Christian is somebody who's accepted that offensiveness, has seen it, and has said, I'm not going to be offended. I see the offensiveness, but I accept the teaching of the cross. But a Christian is somebody who moves on to boasting. May I never boast in anything except the cross. What does that mean to boast? It means just what you think. Now, when you think of boasting, you're thinking about side boasting, aren't you? When you think of bragging, you're thinking about bragging to people. Paul's not talking about that necessarily. What do you brag about in yourself? What do you boast in? You see, you boast about the things that make you look good. What do you think makes you look good? Do you boast to yourself about your achievement in a particular area or about your looks? Do you boast about your relationships? Do you boast about your smarts and your intelligence? What do you boast about? Do you boast about your professional status? What do you boast about? I'm not talking about what you boast about outside. What do you boast about inside? What do you decide is what really makes you a worthwhile person? What do you really build your self-appreciation on? Paul says a Christian is somebody who more and more finds that their self-appreciation is completely programmed by the cross. And that leads to freedom from the world. Let me explain what it means. A Christian boasts. It doesn't just admire. It doesn't just get inspired. It doesn't just intellectually believe in the cross. A Christian boasting in the cross exalts in the cross. It becomes the governing principle. It becomes the thing they gaze at. It becomes their universe. First of all, a Christian boasts in the cross intellectually. What do I mean by that? The last hymn we're going to sing is typical. When I survey the wondrous cross. All the great Christians of history have always not just believed in the cross. When I ask somebody about the cross and they say, I've always believed that. A Christian boasts. A Christian gazes at the cross. A Christian surveys the cross. When I survey the wondrous cross. What's so wondrous about it? A Christian begins to intellectually get satisfied with the consummate wisdom of the cross. A Christian is somebody who over the years begins to see more and more how all the contradictions of life all find their resolution in the cross. They glow with a radiance and a glory. See, a Christian says, God is holy. God is just. And just as always demands complete payment. But God is loving. God is compassionate. And real love will always pay anything for the loved one. And you think that, you see, if it wasn't for the cross, you might say reverently that God's holiness and his love seem to be at loggerheads. How can he be absolutely just and absolutely holy and punish all evil and still save anybody and love us? On the cross, it all comes together. The Christian is in the cross. That's the reason why Isaac Watts talks about it. He says, Or thorns compose so rich a crown. See, a Christian is always amazed by all the contradictions, which aren't contradictions in the cross. All the paradoxes, which aren't paradoxes on the cross. A thorn's become a crown. The prince of life is killed. The holiness and the love of God come together on the cross. They meet, they kiss, they're both completely fulfilled. They no longer contradict because of the cross, the cross. There, my sin has been condemned, but there, at the same time, God's love for me is evidenced and is, and triumphs. See? That's the reason why Charles Wesley and Isaac Watts and all these guys that used to write these old hymns, you see that they didn't just believe in the cross, they gazed at it. They were intellectually satisfied by it. They saw the wisdom of it and they couldn't get their minds off of it. That's a great acid test of whether you're a Christian, whether you think like a Christian, whether your mind's been transformed by the gospel. When I survey the wondrous cross on which the, on which the prince of glory died,

but more than that, a Christian boasts in the cross, that means personally, you begin to take yourself appreciation from it. That's why you get your freedom from the world. You say, God loves me. This person doesn't, but I've got God's love. God accepts me. This person doesn't, but I've got God's acceptance. God sees me beautiful. This person sees a flaw, but I've got God's love. I've got God's acceptance. Your primary self-appreciation, your biggest and deepest boast is in the cross. And this is the reason it brings freedom. Think about it. You know, the famous story of Corrie ten Boom, the forgiveness story. Here's the structure of it. The famous story goes like this. Corrie ten Boom was a Dutch woman who was in a concentration camp during World War II with her sister. Her sister died in that concentration camp. Years later, Corrie ten Boom was speaking in a church, walked up to see some of the leaders of the church, who were putting their hands out to shake her hand. And one of the deacons of the church was a guard from that concentration camp, a cruel guard, who obviously now was a Christian. One of the people who were responsible for the death of her sister and all her suffering, and she felt this great fury rise up, but as she reached out her hand, she felt tremendous forgiveness. And she felt the warmth of Christ flood right through her, and she forgave him on the spot. He didn't even know it. But you know what the structure is, see? The only way you can forgive is to know, that Jesus Christ paid it all, every bit of it. The structure is, forgiveness is never easy. Somebody's got to pay for it. And Corrie ten Boom says, how dare I demand one more penny of payment for something that my Savior has paid every last bit of his blood for. You see, the forgiveness comes. I can forgive the world because the cross is my boast. I can rebuke the world. If you need to do an intervention with somebody whose approval you need, you'll never do it. If you know the best thing for a person is to rebuke that person, but you need that person's approval, you'll never do it. You'll never be free for the world until you're free from the world. You'll never be able to rebuke people in love. You'll never be able to make sacrifices. You'll never be able to speak out and say things if your reputation is still an idol in your life, if material comfort is still an idol in your life. If you've got to have these things from the world, there won't be courage about you. Nicholas Count Zinzendorf was one of the most wealthy people in the world in the 1730s, the 1720s. He was a European man. He started the Moravian Church. He was a very worldly man and a tremendously powerful man. But one day, he was looking at a painting of Christ. We don't even know who the artist was. But at the bottom of the painting, the artist had written several words as if they'd come down from Christ on the cross. You know what? They were like, the best translation goes this way. I have done this for thee. What wilt thou do for me? And Zinzendorf, all of his life, had a nominal belief in the cross of Christ. But suddenly, the offensiveness of it struck him and he broke through it and he saw the beauty of it. And at that moment, he broke down. And he began to see the same things that Isaac Watts says in this hymn that we're about to sing. Were the whole realm of nature mine? That were a present far too small. Love so amazing, so divine, demands my soul, my life, my all. What that means is, his attitude toward his wealth, his attitude toward his reputation, his attitude toward his material comfort, everything was revolutionized. The world was crucified to him and he was crucified to the world. And he began to use his goods in the most powerful way to build orphanages and hospitals, to send missionaries out, to start churches. He became, he became a dynamo for good because he saw Jesus on the cross and he heard Jesus say, I have done this for thee. What will thou do for me? Have you felt the offensiveness of the cross? Are you boasting in the cross? Let's pray. Father, as we give ourselves to think about this, as we listen to the music, as we take up the offering, help us. To know what it means to boast in the cross. We ask that in Jesus' name. Amen.
