The scripture this morning is from 2 Samuel, chapter 9. David asked, Is there anyone still left in the house of Saul to whom I can show kindness for Jonathan's sake? Now there was a servant of Saul's household named Ziba. They called him to appear before David, and the king said to him, Are you Ziba, your servant? He replied. The king asked, Is there no one still left in the house of Saul to whom I can show God's kindness? Ziba answered the king, There is still a son of Jonathan. He is crippled in both feet. Where is he? the king asked. Ziba answered, He is at the house of Mekir, son of Amiel and Lodavar. So King David had him brought from Lodavar, from the house of Mekir, son of Amiel. When Mephibosheth, son of Jonathan, the son of Saul, came to David, he bowed down to pay him honor. David said,

Mephibosheth, your servant, he replied. Don't be afraid, David said to him, for I will surely show you kindness for the sake of your father Jonathan. I will restore to you all the land that belonged to your grandfather Saul, and you will always eat at my table. Mephibosheth bowed down and said, What is your servant that you should notice a dead dog like me? Then the king summoned Ziba, Saul's servant, and said to him, I have given your master's grandson everything that belonged to Saul and his family. You and your sons and your servants are to farm the land for him. And bring in the crops so that your master's grandson may be provided for. And Mephibosheth, grandson of your master, will always eat at my table. Now Ziba had 15 sons and 20 servants. Then Ziba said to the king, Your servant will do whatever my lord the king commands his servant to do. So, Mephibosheth ate at David's table like one of the king's sons. Mephibosheth had a young son named Micah, and all the members of Ziba's household were servants of Mephibosheth. And Mephibosheth lived in Jerusalem because he always ate at the king's table, and he was crippled in both feet. This is the word, the word of the Lord. We've been looking at the life of David all summer because there's a lot to look at, because there's more information about David than any other figure in the Bible, more text, more passages. And that's important for a Christian believer to pay attention to. In the Gospels, Jesus is seldom called son of Moses or son of Abraham, but over and over again, he's called the son of David. And that doesn't just mean he was a descendant of David. It means that when David the king is at his best, we're getting a glimpse into the heart of our true king. We're getting a glimpse into our own salvation and into the heart of the character of God, our Savior. Now, this particular incident is about David searching for someone in order to give him something and to, help us understand what this is all about. Let's ask the text three questions. What does David give? To whom does David give it? And how can he do such a thing? What does David give? To whom does David give it? And how in the world can he do such a thing? First, what is it that David's giving? And it's three times David mentions it. In verse one, in verse three, and in verse seven. He says, I'm searching for Mephibosheth, a descendant of Saul, to give him kindness. See? Is there anyone to whom I can show kindness? I want to show God's kindness, verse three. For I will surely show you kindness. Now, that's a fairly limp English word to get across one of the most important Hebrew words in the Bible. It's a word that is hesed, or it's often translated steadfast love, covenant love. In a consumer relationship, with a retailer, you say, I'll be in a relationship with you as long as you're giving me good merchandise for a fair price. And of course, if you stop giving me good merchandise for a fair price, I'll go to some other retailer. In other words, in a consumer relationship, you sacrifice the relationship to meet your needs. If your needs aren't being met, you're out. But in a covenant relationship, you sacrifice your needs to sustain the relationship. You serve, and you maintain that relationship, and you're committed to that relationship, even when it's not meeting your needs. And that's covenant love. That's hesed. And even though we'll see in a minute exactly why David is actually looking for a descendant of Saul, the main point right here in the beginning is to show you that David has made a promise years ago, and nobody expected him to keep that promise. Mephibosheth didn't expect him to keep that promise, and he didn't. Nobody's looking to him to do it. It's not at all to his advantage to do it, and yet he does it, because his relationships are marked by covenant love. Now, in the last 25 years, there's been a lot of ink spilled about something that rightly should be talked about, that in our culture, a retail relationship in which you say, if you don't give me good customer service, I'm going somewhere else. That's fine. In fact, that helps the economy. If they don't give you good customer service, go somewhere else. That'll make them feel good. The first company better, and it's good. But what's being noted and noticed rightly in the last 25 years is that increasingly our personal relationships are shaped by our retail relationships, that we're conducting our personal relationships with our neighbors, with our friends, with our church, in many cases even with our God, the way we conduct it with a retailer. Why? Because retail relationships, consumer relationships, are disposable. Disposable. They should be disposable. The needs are more important than the relationship. But disposable relationships, relationships that you have with people, and as soon as they're not paying off, you just slide effortlessly from one to another. None of the relationships really stick. That creates a very fragmented society. That creates an incredibly lonely place, society, to live in. And increasingly, sociologists and anthropologists and politicians and all sorts of people and just, you know, and just Abed columnists are noticing that increasingly we have disposable relationships. Covenant love is not the way in which we conduct our relationships anymore. Now, it would be very easy for me to spend some time with you as a pastor thinking about this just in terms of the church. One of the things all pastors, especially my age, have seen over the last 30 years is increasingly that we have disposable relationships. You have people who are afraid to commit. So, for example, to say, be in a small group that meets every Tuesday night. Well, what if something comes up next Tuesday and it's really more interesting and actually be more advantageous to me? I don't want to commit to something every Tuesday night because I want to be able to glide from one thing to another. Covenant love always limits you. It limits your freedom. It cuts you off from other options automatically. So I don't want to be in a group. I don't want to volunteer to teach that. I don't want to be a member. I just want to come. However, rather than indulging in a pastoral pity party and listen to poor pastors talk about how people aren't committed anymore, I would like you to think more broadly. I would like you to think more broadly about to what degree your very sensibilities, all of your relationships are actually lacking covenant love. More and more and more becoming basically, disposable retail relationships. Mark Edmondson is a professor of English at University of Virginia. And last year, in the last year, he wrote an article that you can find online. It's called Dwelling in Possibilities. It's at the website of the Chronicle of Higher Education. And he wrote an article on, I guess the guy's about my age, because he says in 30 years of teaching students, he's never seen a generation of students like this one. And what he does is he lays out a principle, then he applies it, he applies it to three areas. And it's basically about what we're talking about. He says, quote, my students are possibility junkies. And he says, for as much as they want to do and actually manage to do, they always strive to keep their options open, never, ever, ever to shut possibilities down, which means they cannot commit to one thing or two things. Now he does, he then applies this to three areas. The first one is time, and it's the funniest, so I'll read it to you. He says, ask an American college student what he's doing on Friday night. Ask him at 5.30 Friday afternoon, and he will say, I don't know. But then will come a list of possibilities to make the average Chinese menu seem short. There's the concert, there's the play, there's the movie, there's the party, there's the stay-at-home chilling, there's the monitoring of SportsCenter, there's the reading of assignments or two, fast, fast. But once you do get them somewhere, you'll find that, as Gertrude Stein says, there's no there. Because at a student party, a quarter of the people have their cell phones locked to their ears. What are they doing? They're talking to their friends about what? A better party they could be going to, to which they will go. And secondly, he applies this to intellectual development, which is much more serious. He says, one day a student came to him. He teaches, he tries to get people into certain thinkers, one of which is Henry David Thoreau. And a student came to him, I think it was about Thoreau, and sat down and said, please take ten minutes and convince me that Thoreau has something valuable to teach me. So I'd like to study him, but I have ten minutes to really, what is it basically in a nutshell that his basic message is? And of course Mark Edmondson says, you have to just take one book and read the whole book. It was a very long book, it was going to take a long time, and the guy said, do you realize how many other things I could be doing while I'm reading the book? And you know what he comes back to and says? He says, this is the writer, the primary reason, to study Blake or Dickinson or Thoreau or Dickinson is not to become more cultivated, not to become more articulate, not to get good grades. The ultimate reason to read them is to see if they know you better than you know yourself. They have messages, and those messages take a long time to learn. You have to give yourself to them. You have to read all the way through one or two of their books. And if you're not willing to do that, you are just going to be,

sliding effortlessly from one idea to another idea, from one blog post to another blog post, from one video clip to another video clip, and never, ever finding out what they have to tell you. You'll never walk in their shoes. He then applies this, by the way, to emotional relationships, and here's a quote. He says, I was trying to find out, what exactly does it mean to hook up? It means managing to have good sex without, activating all the strong feelings that sex usually brings. Hooking up is a fantasy of frictionless sex, sex free of deep emotion. It's sex that lets you keep on sliding over surfaces, moving from partner to partner as smoothly as you move from site to site on your laptop. My students are possibility junkies for as much as they want to do and actually manage to do. They always strive to keep their options open, never to shut possibilities down. I want you to consider something. David is after Mephibosheth to do this. Years and years and years, he's never forgotten this, and he follows through, and he does it. He says, I want to show you hesed. In fact, in verse three, it says God's hesed, and the point is, God's covenant love, if it comes into your life, makes you a committer rather than a consumer. In general, let's not just talk about church membership or this or that. In general, the default mode of your heart is to commit rather than to consume. To not just, not just glide over everything, but to stick. When you know somebody, when you get into a relationship, when you pick up a task, when you get involved in some kind of enterprise, you stick with it. You're faithful to it. You're willing to take a hit. You're willing to limit your freedom. You're willing to limit your options

because did God lose anything to love you? Covenantal love makes you, in general, a committer rather than a consumer. The great irony of all this is, as scary as covenantal love is, because you limit your options and you lose your freedom, there is nothing more liberating and more freeing than being in covenantal relationships. There's nothing more liberating than knowing you have a circle of friends that would do anything for you. You can count on. There's nothing like being part of a community that really sticks together. And of course, it only happens if everybody's losing their freedom. And then you get inside a relationship, those relationships like that, and it's more freeing than anything. You can imagine. That's what David is out to give, covenantal love. But to whom, secondly, is David trying to give it to? And the answer is, an enemy. When Mephibosheth, who is the last descendant, well, except for his own son, of King Saul, the previous king before David became king, when he is called into David's presence, now look carefully because I think the translation, the translation mutes it a little bit. We're told, first of all, that he bowed down to pay him honor. Now, literally, the Hebrew says he went prostrate. That is to say, he threw himself on the floor. And then notice, David has to say, don't be afraid. Why? Because he's trembling probably. He's terrified. And then notice how he talks about himself. What is your servant that you should know as a dead dog like me? Why is he terrified? Why is he afraid? Because he was sure that he was being brought into the presence of David the king to be killed. And anybody, anybody who knew anything about just how life works, how government works, how stuff works, would have expected that David was out to bring him in to kill him. Why? One commentator puts this, puts it like this. In ancient times, when a new regime or dynasty came to power, the name of the game was purge. You don't even have to go wandering into ancient Near Eastern history to confirm this. You can go in biblical history. See King Basha in 1 Kings 15? Or King Zimri in 1 Kings 16? Or look at Jehu in 2 Kings 10? And you know what happens whenever a new regime gets into power. You know what happens to the remnants of the old regime. The new king must solidify his position. And it was conventional political policy. Solidification by liquidation. Everybody knew it. Everybody believed it. Everybody practiced it. And you can see this early on in the earlier chapters of 2 Samuel. Because Saul was a Benjamite. He was from the tribe of Benjamin. And when he died, David was anointed king. And of course, he's from the tribe of Judah. So the tribe of Judah got around him. Well, people from the tribe of Benjamin found a surviving son of Saul, Ish-bosheth, and said, no, he's the king. Anointed him the king. Declared him the king. There was a terrible civil war for many years before David was able to emerge triumphant. And what this means is the only way for David to survive is for David to really be secure. The only way for David to really know that he was politically safe and secure as a king is if he hunted down every other direct descendant of Saul and killed him. Because as long as Mephibosheth is alive, he's a potential rallying point for David's opponents. And the only way to be sure that he has a nice, safe, secure kingdom, social stability. You could do it in the name of that. Political stability. You could do it in the name of that. He should have killed Mephibosheth. Mephibosheth is a key man in the enemy camp. And David brings him in and empowers him. He says, I'm giving you all of your grandfather Saul's land back. Economically, made him a wealthy man. And then adopts him, essentially. He says, I want you to eat at my table. That meant, you know, that didn't, that was relational. It says so in verse 11. He ate at David's table like one of his sons. He says, I want you in my family. I essentially want to adopt you personally. And I want to empower you politically and economically. Now, this is nuts. But this is absolutely biblical. You know how sometimes I refer to this. C.S. Lewis wrote a book called The Abolition of Man. And in the appendix, there's a, I guess there's just one appendix, in which C.S. Lewis tries to show that the differences between the religions of the world do not lie basically in their ethics. Ethically, all the religions of the world say, honor your father and mother, care for the poor, don't lie, don't commit adultery, don't kill. They all say roughly the same thing. The difference between the religions of the world is what's called soteriology, or how you're saved. The way Islam and Buddhism and Confucianism and Christianity and Judaism and so on differ is on how you're saved. Of course, Christians say you must be saved through Jesus Christ. That's very different. But when it comes to how you live, most of the ethics are the same. Except here. There's one major ethical prescription, one directive and command for how you must live if you believe in the God of the Bible that is absolutely different from anything you find in the other religions. In Matthew 5, Jesus' famous Sermon on the Mount, here's what he says. Here's how he says it. Love your enemies. Bless those who curse you. Do good to them. Do good to those that hate you. Pray for those who persecute you. And then you will be sons of the Most High, for he makes the rain to fall and the sun to shine on the just and the unjust. Now, why would that be asked? Now, don't forget, you should know, maybe do or don't, is when the Bible says you must love your enemies, it doesn't mean you make it easy for them to sin against you. Why? Because it's not loving to make it easy for someone to sin. Got that? If someone's out to get you, you should not make it easy for them to sin against you because if you love somebody to help them, make it easy for them to sin is the worst thing you can do for them. And it also means you may need to oppose them or confront them. Why? Because if you don't do it, it might be unloving for other people around you. But whatever you do, you do it lovingly. That is to say you never oppose your enemies, you never confront your enemies, you never deal with your enemies just to hurt them, just to humiliate them, just to bring them down because you want vengeance. That's got to be gone. There has to be a gentleness, there has to be a graciousness, there has to be a love. Now, when you see David embodying this, I think the text is trying to teach us a couple of things. First of all, notice that David, representing the character of God, is asking us to reach out to our political opponents, this is a very important thing to keep in mind. This man is on the other party, and David's reaching across the aisle, as it were, and how important it is to remember at a time like this. I don't listen to my 85-year-old mother on many political issues, but she said something very important recently. She says, you know, up to 20 years ago, if you voted for a guy for president and he didn't win, the guy who won was still your president. And then 20 years ago, that changed. And now anybody who's on that person's side is really opponents, they're evil, that doesn't fit in with this. Here's a guy who really could be the cause of David's death. He didn't just differ with him over health care. This is a person who could really be someone who could be the cause of David's death, and he's reaching out to him. Why? Love your enemies. Bless those who persecute you. Pray for those who persecute you. Bless those who curse you. That's the Bible. It's at the very heart of the Bible. Notice something else. David's not just reaching out across political barriers. He's also reaching out across a tribal barrier. This is the tribe of Benjamin. He's the tribe of Judah. And, you know, he says at the king's table, when the king is eating together, I want to have different tribes. I want to have different kinds of people all eating together as my sons. That reminds us of how important it is for us to have a tribe. It reminds us as a church of Jesus Christ that when we sit down to eat the Lord's Supper, we should be as racially, as ethnically, as class and socioeconomically diverse as possible. We should be working for that. We should be trying to reach out across the kind of barriers that ordinarily keep people apart and say, come to the table and be my son or my daughter, my brother, my sister. Well, see, that's all very heartwarming, but I want you to know that's not the case. I want you to see that when David reaches out to Mephibosheth and showing us the character of God, he's not just showing us that we need to reach out to our political opponents and reach out to people who are culturally different, but here's the most important thing. Why is the Christian ethic so different than the ethic of every other religion at this point? It's because the soteriology, it's because the means of salvation is so different. Other religions believe that if you come to know God, it's because you have sought for him and you have become his friend. You've cleaned up your life. You start to pray. You start to do his will. You sought for him and you sought for him and you found him and now he blesses you. And that's what every other religion says. That's the way you get to know God. That's not what the Bible says at all. Here's what the Bible says. Paul says in chapter 3 of Romans, no one seeks for God. No, not one. And therefore, Jesus says in John 6, 44, no one can come to me. No one is capable of coming to me unless the Father draws him. And Romans 5, verse 10, Paul says, while we were yet enemies, we were reconciled through the blood to the death of his son. You say, well, that doesn't seem quite right. No one seeks for God? Everybody's an enemy? Nobody seeks for God unless God comes after, like David does, and drags us into his presence, like David does Mephibosheth. That doesn't make sense. There's a lot of people out there seeking for God and worshiping God and trying their very best. Well, think about this. Religious people want God, but they don't want the biblical God. They want a God who is holy and who is a lawgiver and then who, through your moral performance, you can get that God to answer your prayers and take you to heaven. Religious people want a God they can control and a God that keeps them in control of their lives, not the true biblical God. And as they're seeking that God, and as they think they're obeying that God, they're running from the true God. They're enemies of the true God. So religious people want a God that they can control through their moral performance. Non-religious people want to believe in a God of love. Oh, I believe in a God of love, they say. I believe there's a force of love in the universe and there's a spark of the divine in everybody and God loves everyone and accepts everyone no matter who they are, no matter what they do. That keeps you in control of your life, too. What is Mephibosheth so frightened of? He's sure that if he actually comes into the presence of the king, he's going to be smitten. And I don't know how many people I've talked to over the years who have said, well, I'm interested in being a Christian, but if I become a Christian, will I still be able to have him for my boyfriend or her for my girlfriend? Will I have to give up my dreams of my career? In other words, I'm afraid that if I absolutely submit to God, I'll be miserable. And Jesus is saying, and Paul is saying, and the Bible is saying, that because we are that afraid, we want a God we can control and who keeps us in control of our life. We're afraid of getting into the presence of the biblical God. We're running away from him. We're sure that if we ever completely submit to him, we'll be miserable. If we have to absolutely obey that God and surrender everything to him, but when we're brought like David with Mephibosheth, when we're actually brought into his presence and we fall on the ground, ready to feel like we're ready to be smitten, we're adopted. And we're empowered. And we find that his service is perfect freedom. And only his service is perfect freedom. And this is the reason

why Christians, unlike the adherents of other religions, don't just obey the Ten Commandments. They love their enemies. Why? Because they know they're enemies. They know they've been running from God. Nobody who's ever really found the true biblical God doesn't eventually sing a song something like this. "'Tis not that I did choose thee, for, Lord, that could not be. This heart would still refuse thee, hadst thou not chosen me. Mine heart owns none before thee, for thy rich grace I thirst. This knowing, if I love thee, thou must have loved me first." And that is the very essence of what it means to live as a follower of the God who David reflects, when he calls Mephibosheth in, who expects and whoever the world expects to be smitten by him and says, I want you to be a son. I want you to sit at my table. I want you to have these lands back. I want to empower you. So that's what David was trying to show, and that's to whom he was trying to give it. But we have to conclude, rather briefly, with a final question. How could he do such a thing? What in the world is he doing? What in the world would... Do you realize he was taking his life into his hands? Do you realize he was limiting himself? Do you realize he was risking to do this? Risking big time. He was making himself vulnerable to do this? Well, we said that's what covenant love is. But boy, this is a big risk. How could he do such a thing? Or, let's be more practical, how can we do such a thing? How in the world can we love our enemies? How in the world can we buck our consumer culture and start to love our enemies? How can we start to live in relationships in which we're faithful to people, in which we give up our freedom, in which we're willing to commit to one or two things instead of glide effortlessly from thing to thing to thing like websites on a laptop? How are we going to buck our own culture? We need to see what David said. Look, verse 7, here's the key. I want to show you kindness. I want to give you covenant love. Why? For the sake of your father, Jonathan. Backstory. If you've been here all summer, you know it. Backstory anyway. God sent Samuel to anoint David to be the next king after Saul. Saul was furious. Saul tried to kill David. Why? Saul already had a son who was going to be king after him. He didn't want David to be the king after him. He wanted Jonathan to be the king after him. But Jonathan, of course, would have had even more incentive to want to kill or banish David than even his father because his father was going to be gone when David was king. But he was the rightful heir. He was the one who was supposed to be the king. But David and Jonathan became friends. Jonathan perceived God's anointing on David. Jonathan loved David. And in 1 Samuel 18, 19, and 20, we see them making a covenant of friendship. And there's one place in which Jonathan, swearing love and loyalty to David, saying, I will protect you from my father, even though I'm still going to try to be as loyal to my father as possible. I'm going to protect you from my father who's trying to kill you. He takes off his robe, and he takes off his sword. And you know what that meant. He was giving up his throne. And because Jonathan stayed loyal to his father at the same time, and did save David's life from his father, he was stuck. And he eventually had to go with his father. And if you know the story, he was finally, killed in a hopeless battle, along with his father and his two of his brothers, in a hopeless battle on Mount Gilboa. And here's what this means. David had a friend who loved him covenantally. David had a friend who put himself in harm's way to take David out of harm's way, and who lost his throne so that David could ascend the throne. What a friend. David had a friend like that. And so do you. So do you. David could love Mephibosheth. David could risk his life to love Mephibosheth because of what Jonathan had done. And God can love you. And God can receive you. And God, though he has the right to smite you, can bring you into his presence and adopt you and empower you for the sake of an even greater friend. Because you see, David had a friend who lost an earthly throne. But we have a friend who lost a heavenly throne to save us. We have a friend who died on Mount Gilboa for him. And we have a friend who died on Mount Calvary for us. And he actually says this. Jesus does. I no longer call you servants. Instead, I have called you friends. You did not choose me, but I chose you and appointed you to go and bear fruit. Greater love has no one than this, that he lay down his life for his friends. Therefore, love one another. And there it is. Mephibosheth didn't deserve all that. He didn't deserve all this, but Jonathan did. But Jonathan's work is imputed to Mephibosheth. And so in he comes, into the king's presence, to the king's table. And you and I don't deserve any of this, but for the sake of what Jesus Christ has done, it's imputed to us. And so Paul can say, he says, I want to be found in him, in Jesus Christ, not having a righteousness of my own, but a righteousness that's through faith in Jesus Christ, a righteousness that comes from God and is by faith. And once you understand that, once you're moved to the depths by that, once you realize that you were an enemy that's become a friend because you have a dying friend like Jonathan, only greater than Jonathan,

you'll be able to start to limit yourself in your relationships. You'll be able to stop just gliding from place to place, disposing of things as soon as it looks like it's going to cut off your options. What did Jesus Christ lose to love you? What options did he lose? That he cut himself off from? He was cut off even from his father. He was cut off from everything. So yes, I think you can commit yourself to Tuesday nights. Yes, I think you can say, when I get into friendships, I'm not going to just dispose them and it looks like this is actually, you know, I think I'm getting, I'm not getting much out of this relationship. Yes, it can change your sensibility. Yes, it's enough for us to become a counterculture to the way the culture is. Yes, it can teach us to treat our political opponents, with grace. Yes, we can be very different. We'll be empowered by the dying love imputed to us of our great friend, Jesus Christ. And one last thing. Next time we do have the Lord's Supper, look around you and think. There are people of other races and other cultures, other classes, other professions, that if it wasn't for the dying love of Jesus Christ, would really be your opponents and would be your enemies. And yet we're all sitting down and eating at the king's table. And I want you to, to revel in the miracle of that. Because it'll turn you into somebody who acts like this, acts like David. So one person put it this way. One writer said this. What binds us together is not common education or common race or common income levels or common politics or common nationality or common accents or common jobs or anything else of that sort. Christians come together because they have been loved by Jesus himself. They are a band of natural enemies who love one another, for Jesus' sake. Let's pray. Our Father, we would love to be that kind of counterculture. We are a long way from it, every single one of us. But we ask that you would help us to see in this simple story of David seeking out someone from the enemy camp and adopting and empowering him and loving him for the sake of the covenant love of a dying friend, that we'd see an image of what you've done. That you've done for us. That though we were enemies and we were running from you, you pulled us in. We were so afraid that if we submitted to you, we would be enslaved. And we are not now. We're sons and daughters and only in your services there's perfect freedom. And we didn't know this, but you showed it to us. So now, once we see that, boy, that should just change all of our relationships within the body of Christ, outside of the body of Christ. So let that change our relationships. Turn us into a community as the Lord, like the one that we have been sketching out here. Make us like your son who came not to be served, but to serve and to give his life a ransom for many. It's in his name we pray. Amen.