Let's take a look at 1 Corinthians 12, a very, very big subject, and I want to talk to you

tonight about it, though there's many, many perhaps more pressing questions like, what is prophecy in tongues all about? I don't think that's actually probably all that important to you or us right now. I'd like to talk to you more about the more general principles here, and I'm going to try to work right through it, because I'd like to show you that in verses 1 to 3, we're being told how we all have the Spirit, verses 4 through 7, that we nevertheless have the Spirit in very diverse ways, verses 8 to 13, how we can discern our particular gift matrix, and verses 14 to the end, two small problems with spiritual gifts and one big one. Okay? We all have it, Him. We all have the Spirit. We have the Spirit. We have the Spirit in diverse ways. We need to discern our spiritual gifts and some problems that come with the very subject of spiritual gifts. Okay? Let's do this fairly quickly. First of all, you know, verses 1 to 3, let me, I can read this part. Concerning spiritual gift, brothers, I don't want you to be uninformed. You know that when you were pagans, you were led away to mute idols. You were led astray to mute idols, however you were led. Therefore, I want you to understand that no one speaking in the Spirit of God ever said Jesus is accursed. No one can say Jesus is Lord except in the Holy Spirit. Now, he's not saying here that no one can actually mouth the words Jesus is Lord without the Holy Spirit. Instead, he's saying that the very desire to put Christ central in your life takes the Holy Spirit. You aren't capable of even wanting Christ to be in the center of your life. Jesus is Lord. You're not even capable of wanting Jesus in the center of your life except by the Holy Spirit. Now, this is humbling and empowering. Let's talk about empowering. It's empowering because Paul's trying to say right off the bat, every Christian has the Holy Spirit. Every Christian has lots of the Holy Spirit. We have to be very careful about giving anyone the impression that you don't have the Spirit of God.

The sign, how to put it this way, if you feel like I don't have the power of God in my life, that's a sign. That God's power is in your life. You're not capable of noting that. You're not capable of wanting that on your own. Don't give yourself too much credit. The sense of God's absence is a sign of his presence. You wouldn't feel his absence if he wasn't there working on you. See, this is very empowering. The feeling I don't have enough of the Spirit is a sign that the Spirit's working in your life. You're incapable of wanting Jesus to be Lord or making Jesus Lord without the Holy Spirit. That's empowering. That's not empowering. Let's not look out there for a moment and say, well, this person has more of the Spirit. Paul says that's not appropriate. And it's also humbling because it means that people who've got, you might say, spotlight spiritual gifts, spiritual gifts that get them a lot of attention and a lot of acclaim, really don't have any more of the Spirit than the humblest, brand-newest Christian in the world. Okay, so that's the first point. Very important.

Second, we all have the Spirit, but we hold the Spirit in very diverse ways. Now, verses 4-7. 4-7, very, very packed. And I've thought a lot about these three verses over the years, and they tell you an awful lot about spiritual gifts. Let me read it. There are varieties of gifts, but one Spirit. There are varieties of service, but the same one Lord. There are varieties of activities, but it's the same God who empowers them all and everyone. To each is given the manifestation of the Spirit for the common good. Now, actually, there's more in there than I'm going to tell you now. But notice, let's ask the question, what is a spiritual gift? Okay? What is a spiritual gift? Well, one of the ways in which you can learn that is notice the synonyms. In the first phrase, they're called gifts. In the second phrase, they're called service. In the third phrase, they're called workings or actually empowerings. And what that means is rather simple. By the power of God. That means it's coming to you. It comes from God. It's a gift. It's not inherent in you. It's not something you deserve. By the power of God, a spiritual gift is an ability, because it's a working, to meet a need, because it's a service. See, it's a gift from God. It's an ability of service, pardon me, powering, to meet a need. And the purpose is for the common good. Now, let's put all that together. By the power of God. Every Christian gets abilities to meet people's needs in such a way that it creates the new humanity. It builds up the community of the king.

That's a spiritual gift. It's an ability to meet needs, but comes from God, and it creates the new humanity. Who gets spiritual gifts? It says so right there in verse 7. Every Christian, to each, is given a manifestation of the spirit for the common good. And how are they distributed? Now, this is what's so intriguing. You can go back through these three phrases where it says their gifts, their services, and their workings. Literally, the word is empowerings. You can look at them as synonyms, and that's how we just put together our definition of a gift. But they also are perspectives. And what that means is, let's think about it for a second. First of all, there's varieties of gifts. That means that probably you, every individual, does not have just one gift. How do I know that? Well, you know. In Ephesians 4.11, it talks about pastor-teachers. Pastors, people who are both pastors and teachers. They have both pastor gifts and teacher gifts. And yet, in 1 Corinthians 12.28, if you go all the way to the bottom, it talks about teachers all by themselves. So probably it means that there are clusters of gifts that you've got. And of course, you realize that the clusters mean, for example, a teaching gift with a gift of mercy is probably going to be a different gift than a teaching gift with a gift of leadership. And so, first of all, you've got clusters of gifts. And that, right away, begins to make each unique. Secondly, we're told there are varieties of service. And probably what that means is there's different venues. Somebody might be a gifted teacher to children, and yet not be at all a very good teacher to adults. And somebody else might have a great teaching gift for adults, but not at all for children. So first of all, we have different clusters of gifts. Then we have different venues for the gifts. There are different outlets. Different avenues. Different services. Thirdly, the word workings or empowerings probably means there's different potencies. One person might have an ability to counsel people, but another person might be really much more potent in their gift and be able to do it full-time all the time. Or in a way, basically be more effectively. And then on top of that, I personally think that since gifts are the ability to meet needs, then your environment tends to call them out. And so if you have an evangelist to give, you're going to have to be more effective. But you're living in an underground Christian community in Nazi Germany where you don't have any non-Christians. Your evangelistic gift will kind of go dormant. So recognize, because you have different environments, you have different venues, you have different potencies, you have different clusters of gifts, it means in some ways every single one of you in this room is equipped to talk to certain people that probably nobody else is equipped to talk to. There are certain deeds that only you can do. There are certain people that only you can reach. You are... Your spiritual gifts are as unique perhaps as a fingerprint, a thumbprint, or a snowflake. And in some ways, if you knew completely your spiritual gifts, and nobody does, I'll get to that in a second, you would know exactly how the rest of your life should go. And I know a lot of you say, oh, I would need to know that. But you don't. You can't know your spiritual gifts ahead of the way your life unfolds. However, when you look back on your life, you'll see that your spiritual gifts was basically the roadmap to where God took you. You're unique. Isn't that cool? All right. So there... We don't have the spirit, but we have the spirit in very diverse ways. Every Christian is given gifts to make you... And they're distributed uniquely to every person. Now, thirdly, I'm just watching here because I don't want to go too long. The next section, and I'm not going to read it. You can. The next section starts to give an inventory. Well, I'll start reading it. To one is given the utterance of wisdom. To another, the utterance of knowledge. The utterance, the ability of healing, the worker of miracles. And so forth. It goes on through. Now, this raises a couple questions. And the main question is, how do you discern what your gifts are? How do you discern these things? And I would like to give you three basic principles. And this is after a whole lot of many, many years of thinking about this and trying to help people over the years in every church I've ever been in with this subject. And here's what the three principles are. Number one, it's probably better for you to think... to not try to identify real specific gifts, but identify the clusters of your gifts. And some of you may not be surprised when I tell you that when you take all the gifts, from Ephesians 4, from Romans 12, from 1 Corinthians 12, 1 Corinthians 14, 1 Peter 4, those are all places that make little gift lists. They can be basically clustered along the lines of prophetic gifts, priestly gifts, and kingly gifts.

Prophetic gifts tend to be... kind of bold and tend to be kind of impractical, but really good at communication. Priestly gifts tend to be very, very filled with sympathy and service and tend to be behind-the-scenes gifts. Kingly gifts tend to be incredibly down-to-earth and practical. Prophetic gifts have more to do with evangelism and teaching and communication. Priestly gifts have more to do with coming alongside. Sympathy, service helps mercy. Kingly gifts have a whole lot more to do with wisdom, with leadership, with faith, with faith in God. With leadership, with administration, with organization, with getting things done. And it's probably a better idea for you to recognize the basic area that your gifts tend to go into because, as I said, as the years go by, gifts seem to kind of pop up and go dormant depending on your environment. So it's very dangerous to say, this is my gift or these are my two gifts, and then lock on to that. I don't think that's a very good idea. So first of all, have some ideas. Have some idea of your basic clusters.

Secondly, the way you discern what your gifts are is to see what needs you vibrate to in people. What needs you vibrate to.

Because gifts basically are abilities to meet needs. So instead of trying to look at yourself and saying, do I have the gift of this, do I have the gift of that, think about the kind of need out there that really moves you. I'll never forget, and this is a great illustration, I think, for this is that the first week that Kathy and I were in our new church in Hopewell, Virginia, it was July of 1975. And our church is in a pretty poor part of town, and it was surrounded by a trailer court, several trailer courts. And each day, somebody showed up and berated me, not berated me, but berated the church. I was brand new, so it wasn't my problem yet. That the church had not reached out to the trailer courts. What was interesting, nobody from these trailer courts go to our church, and our church is right there. It's like a stone's throw. The one person came and said, those trailer courts are just filled with lost people, and we're just not doing evangelism to reach them. And the second person came the next day and said, our problem is these trailer courts are filled with poor people and elderly people, and we're just not organizing to meet their needs. And the third person came and said, you know what? I'm not doing evangelism to reach them. The problem is that every year, we get together and just say, what are we going to do about the people in the trailer courts? And we come with great vision, but nobody ever knows how to carry it out. We're just so unorganized. It reminds me of Jonathan Winters in, you know, the Russians are coming, the Russians, we got to get organized. Anyway, and I realized that every person was complaining about something different because their gift mix was such that they actually looked at the trailer court and saw different needs. They saw the needs that their heart was vibrating to, and therefore, I came to realize, here's an evangelism person. Here is a mercy person. Here is a wisdom, an organizational person, and that's really important. So instead of sort of looking at your navel, look out. Look at the community. You want to find out what God's gifting you to do, look at people. Don't just sort of look at your navel and say, what am I good at? What do I like? But thirdly, okay, check out your clusters. You know, see what needs you vibrate to. But thirdly, get feedback. Find out what other people think you're good at. This is the proof in the pudding. Now, if you have a gift of teaching, the proof is that people learn. If you have a gift of counseling, the proof is people get better.

Ask them. Or as one of my friends used to say, you know, she has the gift of singing, but nobody has the gift of listening to her.

So anyway, but that's now, you know, informal, that's called ordination. You know that. It's ordination. What is ordination? Ordination is the church coming around the world and saying, you know, I'm going to do this, I'm going to do that, I'm going to do that. And it's the church coming around you and saying, we want you to do this because you're good at it. Now, obviously, there's formal ordination, you know, but then, that's where my hair went. I got ordained just a little too, you know, intensely years ago. That's what I believe. However, everybody's got to be ordained. You know that. We've all got to be ordaining one another. So that's how you find your gifts. Now, lastly, and it's very, very important, the last section, notice, let me read a little bit of it. Verse 14, for the body does not consist of one member but many. If the foot should say, because I'm not a hand, I do not belong to the body, that would not make any less of the part of the body. And if the ear should say, because I am not an eye, I do not belong to the body. But if the whole body were an eye, what would be the sense of hearing? If the whole body, now, you know, what's going on here? Then suddenly he gets all the way to the end, look at the very end, turn over, and it says, I will show you a still more excellent way. And you know what the more excellent way is, of course? It's chapter 13, which is love. Now, let me just suggest two small and one very large problem that are connected with spiritual gifts. I shouldn't say problems with spiritual gifts. They're from God. There's no problem with them, but there's a problem with our getting them or something. The first is two confusions, three confusions, all right? A lot of people, this is a very minor one, a lot of people confuse spiritual gifts with talents. Just real briefly, let me say that there's a tendency to think that a person who's got a natural talent given on the basis of creation, automatically that will become a spiritual gift given through the special grace of the Holy Spirit's redemption. J.I. Packer, in some of his stuff, has always, I think, warned about that. He always pointed out that Charles Spurgeon, if he had never become a Christian, Charles Spurgeon was the great Baptist preacher in London in the 19th century. If he hadn't become a Christian and become a minister, he probably would have been prime minister, he was so incredibly eloquent, and he would have been eloquent whether he was a Christian or not. But then over on this side of the Atlantic, almost contemporaries was a guy named Dwight Moody, who was actually very ineloquent, not at all eloquent. And yet they both had powerful preaching ministries because for some reason, sometimes a spiritual gift sort of comes down on top of a town, other times it seems to come down and work without much of one. In some ways, it's a little more moralistic. It's miraculous, but be careful. Talents aren't necessarily spiritual. They aren't spiritual gifts, and the point is that spiritual gifts don't necessarily just go along with your talent. Just because you're good at that in some ways doesn't mean you necessarily have to use that in the church. We have to see. Secondly, and that's a minor problem, another minor problem, well, it's a bigger problem, is people don't understand the difference between gifts and roles. Now, here's what I mean. If you look down the list, you'll see there's a gift of teaching, there's a gift of evangelism, there's a gift of encouragement, right? But we also know in the Bible that every one of those things is also a duty. Every Christian is supposed to encourage, every Christian is supposed to evangelize, every Christian is supposed to, okay. And so, this is from Peter Wagner years ago. Peter Wagner says, if you don't understand the difference between the relationship of gifts to roles, you will fall into one of two mistakes, and they're both very serious. One is gift projection, one is gift cop-out. And what he said, gift projection is somebody else, well, no, actually, if I have the gift of evangelism, and therefore I'm always leading people to Christ, and you look at me and you say, I'm just terrible, I can't seem to lead people to Christ, you're projecting my gift on you. Or maybe I may, it's not that hard for pastors to do this. In fact, I did it on my own church in Virginia for quite a long time. I had a church filled with mercy people. I had a church filled with people with diaconal mercy gifts, not communication gifts. They're all going to want to lead Bible studies, and everybody, you know, be taking all sorts of notes. I was projecting my gifts on them. So, you can project your gifts on other people, they can project my gifts on them, be careful. But the opposite is gift cop-out, and gift cop-out is to say, well, that's not my gift, I don't have to witness, I don't have to share my faith, you know, I don't have to counsel people. I couldn't lead a Bible study, I don't have that gift. You know, so, be very, very careful that you don't do either gift projection or gift cop-out. But here's the main thing, and here's where you have to end, even though it's very, very big. The big problem is that, according to the book of 1 Corinthians, is that people don't recognize the difference, or the very important relationship of gifts, spiritual gifts to spiritual fruit. Listen, spiritual gifts are things you do. Spiritual fruit is what you are. Spiritual gifts are abilities, things you do, and you only have a few of them, you don't have all the gifts. But the spiritual fruit are love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, and love. And you don't have all of them. Goodness, meekness, humility, integrity, self-control. And you're supposed to have all of them. Now, here's what the great danger is. Spiritual gifts masquerade as spiritual fruit. And the more active you are in the church, those of us in the ordained ministry who are on full-time staff are in the greatest danger of all in this room, but the more active you are in the church, the more this danger is that you look at your gifts as if they're your fruit, and they're not. You look at gifts as if they're the evidence that God's working in my life. Sure, that's working in your life. But don't forget, as Jonathan Edwards in a powerful set of sermons on 1 Corinthians 13 once said, because 1 Corinthians 13 starts off by saying, I may have tongues of men and of angels. I may have the ability to discern mysteries. I may have a teaching gift. I may have all these gifts, but I have not love. I am nothing. And Jonathan Edwards goes so far as to point out that in Matthew 7, there's a place, it says, on the last day, there will be people who come up to Jesus and say, didn't we prophesy and do marvelous deeds in your name? Those are gifts. And Jesus will say, I never knew you. I know tons of people, and I know at least personally eight men who were having affairs and committing adultery and having their fruit just absolutely in the toilet while they were preaching and seeing people come to Christ for months. But gifts without fruit is like a tire without air. For a while, it can keep up. When you finally get to the stop sign, it collapses. And it is incredibly easy to kid yourself into thinking that because God's using me, of course God's using you. You got a gift. And so you get into a situation, and something brings out the gift. You're a counselor. You're a teacher. You're a shepherd. Get in a situation that calls it. Meanwhile, your prayer life is in the toilet. Your relationship with your spouse is in the toilet. There's no love, joy, peace, patience growing. And you think because God is using you, somehow you're walking with God. Don't kid yourself. I will show you a more excellent way. Very dangerous. And the more into Christian leadership you're in, the easier it is for you to forget that spiritual gifts are just the means to the end. And the end is the new humanity. And the new humanity is not how well you teach or preach or how well you lead or how good you are at getting new ministries going. The new humanity is love and joy and peace and patience and justice and integrity and self-control. Let's not forget it. So spiritual gifts are an incredible adventure and yet a great danger, unless you understand that. Let's understand the balance of this incredible teaching. Let's pray and then we're going to take the Lord's Supper. Let's pray. Our Father, we thank you so much for giving us spiritual gifts, but spiritual gifts are just a way for us to help one another grow spiritual fruit. How easy it is for us to mistake one for the other, to look to our busyness and look to all of our activities and to think that this is what Christianity is all about. It's not about that. It's not about programs. It's not about meetings. It's not about activities. It's not about how our programs are doing. It's about whether the new humanity is growing, not only individually in people, but also the common good, the community of the King, the new humanity corporately expressed in the church, a pilot plant of the future kingdom of God. And we pray that you would help us see that we need to use our gifts and we need to help others to discern and use their gifts in ministry, but we need to do it in a way that's to the end that you have appointed it. Help us to avoid the pitfalls and dangers. Help us to, at the same time, use the great opportunities we have that the Holy Spirit is in our lives. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.