We started last week, the power of the Spirit or the work of the Spirit in the life of the Christian.

And let me read in Romans 8.

I think this time I'm going to read from Romans 8 verses 12 through 17.

Romans 8, 12 to 17.

Therefore, brothers, we have an obligation, not to the sinful nature to live according to it, for if you live according to the sinful nature, you will die. But if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live, because those who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God. For you did not receive a spirit that makes you a slave again to fear, but you receive the spirit of sonship, and by him we cry, Abba, Father. The Spirit himself testifies with our spirit that we are God's children. Now, if we are children, then we are heirs, heirs of God and co-heirs with Christ, if indeed we share in his suffering, in order that we may also share in his glory. This is God's word.

Well, we're tackling last week and this week a broad topic. you is not so much a detailed exposition of this passage as it is what I would call an introductory overview to how the Bible teaches us the Spirit operates in the Christian's life. In some ways, an awful lot of what I've been giving you this year are overviews as a way of developing a ground, just laying a foundation for how we are going to go about doing the business of the church and doing the business of God in New York City. Now, what I began to say last week and what I essentially said last week is what I put down here in the introduction. Those of you who weren't here last week, let me summarize it. And in this case, I can be really nice and concise. The work of the Spirit mainly, though I can come up with biblically a hundred things the Spirit does, The main thing the Spirit does is he makes Jesus real to you. And I really think I could show that everything else the Spirit does, all the fancy names that we come up with, illumination and regeneration and sanctification, every other word you may hear me say and everything you hear anybody else say, it all boils down to that. The essence of the Spirit's mission and work is said here in John 16, where Jesus says, He will guide you into all truth. He will not speak on his own. He will speak only what he hears. And he will tell you what is yet to come. He will bring glory to me by taking from what is mine and making it known to you. He will bring glory to me by taking what is mine and making it known to you.

Remember, you will understand the Bible so much better you realize that whenever you see the word glory, it means beauty and importance. When we're told that the job of the Spirit is to make Christ glorious to you, what does that mean? You know, it sounds pretty spiritual and maybe vague, but it's not. It means the Spirit makes Christ important to you.

Without the work of the Spirit, you have a tame Jesus in your life. And many of you, you know, many of you, know, had what you might call good old-fashioned, pure pagan backgrounds, and you gave your life to Christ, and you moved out of being a completely irreligious, non-religious, ah-religious person to giving a life to Christ and finding the transformation. But plenty of the rest of us can say, well, I've always been to some degree or another a Christian, but Jesus Christ was tame. He was a kitty cat in my life, and then one day he became a lion, and that's the day I became a Christian. That's right. Put it this way. When the Spirit of God made Jesus Christ instead of an intellectual concept or something on the periphery of your life, when he made him glorious, that means he made him the most heavy. Literally, the word glory means heavy. The most heavy, the most important, the most significant thing in your life. That's the day you knew that you moved from being a nominal Christian into being someone who's being transformed spirit who's being converted. A couple of years ago, what year, movie bust, what year did Cocoon come out, the Ron Howard movie? What year was that? I forget. Four years, three? Yeah, whatever you said. And when it came out, it was a pretty nasty review written in the Philadelphia Inquirer by a guy who I have no idea where he is religiously. I'm not saying anything pro or con, but it was a very of you. What he snorted about was a trend he saw in a lot of movies that he said gave you eternal life without moral requirements. He said what he really liked about, what he really didn't like about so many of the movies was there was the promise given to you that you could live forever, you could know supernatural power in God without any moral requirements because the whole idea of cocoon is we can go and live forever. It doesn't really matter how we lived or what we've done or what our relationship with God is. And for some reason, this reviewer, his name was Desmond Ryan, who writes for the Philadelphia Inquirer, he wrote this down. Again, I have no idea where he is religious-wise. I have no idea. It doesn't matter. It's just a very good thing. He said he wrote this as an example of your typical American approach to God, which he thinks is mirrored in a movie He, quote, I would like three dollars worth of God, please. Not enough to disturb me. Not so much of him that will change how I live. Not so much that I have to love a person of another color or pick beats with immigrants or change the way in which I use my body. I want happiness, not transformation. I want the warmth of the womb, not the new birth. earth, just a pound of the eternal in a brown paper bag, please. And you see, he doesn't know just how close he's coming to what the Bible talks about glory. You see, the whole idea of glory is weight. What Ryan is saying is a typical American doesn't want God to be too weighty. I don't want too much of him, just enough, something I can carry around. I want him to be able to be around so when I'm in trouble I can pray. I want enough of him around so I believe that there is a chance of an afterlife. But I don't want him to be glorious. I don't want him to have all the glory. I don't want him to have the main significance in my life. The work of the Spirit is always about this glory stuff. It's always about importance. And so, for example, there's another place where Paul says this about the Spirit. He says, Now the Lord is the Spirit, and where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is freedom. Sounds great, but what does it mean? And we who with unveiled faces all reflect the Lord's glory are being transformed into his likeness. With every increase in glory which comes from the Lord, who is the Spirit. For we do not preach ourselves, but Jesus Christ is Lord. For God said, Let light shine out of darkness. He has made light shine in our hearts to give us the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. Some people have said that's the single most powerful and audacious statement in the entire Bible. What the Holy Spirit does, you notice, first of all, it's the same thing that we're told about in John 16. The Holy Spirit does is, first of all, bring us the glory of God. We seek Christ's glory. Again, that means, it means something very practical. It means instead of Jesus being on the periphery, he comes downtown in your life. And he sets up shop downtown, and there's no, downtown means there's no way the traffic can go around him. They have to go through him. Everything that happens in your life, you see, comes in through him. And the Spirit pushes him down there, so you can't get away from that. And you begin to realize that he has to be the reason I get up in the morning. And he has to be the basis on which I make decisions. And I can't just go to him as a kind of hobby. I can't say, well, I have this thing that's sort of helping me enrich my life and this thing that helps me enrich my life. Jesus is not another self-help book on the shelf. The spirit of God makes him glorious. And we're also told here and everywhere else, the spirit of God generally does not talk that much about himself. The way you can tell a spirit fulfilled person is they're not always talking about the spirit. Jesus says he will come and bring glory to me by taking what is mine and making it known to you

remember J.I. Packer said the work of the spirit is to be like a flood light we mentioned that last week won't go into it again and a flood light shows you the building but it doesn't show you itself in fact you can hardly see where the flood light is coming from right in the same way the spirit doesn't talk that much about himself that's really not what he's there for he's there to show you the glory of God And that's the point. That's the reason why I put down here something that we weren't able to look at last week, which is critical this week.

And those of you who are fairly new at this Christian business, I hope this is interesting, and I hope you'll file it away, and you'll find it helpful. But you don't know how helpful it will be until later when you begin to realize what a tangled mess the Christian church is in its views on the Holy Spirit. There's a tremendous number of people that are contradicting themselves out there from the pulpit and in books and on the radio and so forth. And I really believe it's because a good doctrine of the Christian experience, which is there in especially the book of Ephesians, it's a very simple model, isn't understood. The model, we see it in Romans 8. Look, there's three parts to experience. What is a Christian experience? You have the spirit. The spirit sets the mind on what? The mind of sinful man. I'll go back a few verses where I didn't read it. Look at Romans 8, verse 6. The mind of sinful man is death, but the mind controlled by the spirit is life and peace. The sinful mind is hostile to God. It does not submit to God's law, nor can it do so. Those who live according to the sinful nature have their minds set on what the nature desires, but those who live in accordance with the spirit desire. See three things there? The spirit preps the mind or sets the mind for the truth of the law of God. The natural mind can't take the law of God in, but the spiritual mind does. Now, for example, Ephesians 3 says, I want to be strengthened in my inner self so I can grasp the height and the width and the breadth and the depth of the love of God. There it is again. to really get a good understanding of it I suggest the illustration of a photo plate think of a photo plate the photo plate is sitting here on the table and if it's been properly treated by chemicals when I open up the shutter light hits it and the light creates images well what kind of images are created on the plate? images of whatever the light came from In other words, the likeness of the light. If, for example, if there's a rock and the shutter opens up, the light from the rock hits the photo plate, and a likeness of the rock appears on the photo plate. How is that a picture of Christian experience? Simply this. The photo plate is like our heart or like our inner man that Paul talks about in Ephesians 3, or like the mind, which Paul talks about here in Romans 8, all the same. The Spirit of God can treat the plate. The Spirit of God makes it sensitive. We're just told here that the natural mind, the untreated mind or heart, is not able to get upon itself the likeness of the law of God. It can't take it in. But we become sensitive to it when The spirit of God treats it. And then when the light hits it. And what is the light? The truth. The law of God. The truth. When the light hits it. The likeness of the truth. Appears on the plate. And what are those little images on the plate? It's what Jonathan Edwards called. The affections. The affections are. The fruit of the spirit. Love. And joy. And peace. And zeal. Let me show you. simple, but very important too. What happens is without the Spirit of God sensitizing your heart, you read a book, or you read a verse, or you hear a sermon about the love of God. What happens? Nothing. You just say, oh yes, now I know that God loves me. You might even believe that God loves me, but there's no experience. But if there's spiritual experience, experience, if there's an operation of the Holy Spirit, what happens is the Spirit sensitizes your heart so that when you read about the love of God or you hear about it or you listen to it, it comes down and strikes your heart and what happens? You go, oh, you sense it striking. And what's going on is the image or the likeness of the truth is being imprinted on your heart. and because you read about God's love and it's mediated through the Spirit, you find your heart melting and you find yourself becoming more loving. You see, you hear a sermon on the love of God and instead of saying, yeah, sermon on the love of God. Now, I always knew that. The Spirit of God takes that and just digs it on in. You get up and you look around and you see some people and you want to love them. What's happened is on the plate of your heart, the likeness of the truth has appeared. It's called the fruit of the Spirit. The plate is the heart. The sensitizing element, the chemical element, is the spirit. The light is the truth. And the image is you become conformed to the image of the glory that you see. That's the reason why Paul can use that incredible image that we just read. See? He says, the Lord is the spirit. And we, with unveiled faces, reflect the Lord's glory, are being transformed into his likeness. with ever increasing glory which comes from the Lord who is the Spirit. That's it. Now the reason this is so absolutely critical to understand is because in the church there's a whole lot of churches that are always talking Spirit, Spirit, Spirit. We don't need doctrine. We don't need learning. We don't need all that stuff. What we need is spiritual power. And we have other people that are saying watch out for those flaky emotionalists. Look out for those people. They'll steer you wrong. their religion is just an emotional catharsis. They need meat. They need solid doctrine. They need Bible study. They need to get their doctrine together. And there's great dangers in both of those things. Great dangers. Because the Spirit of God never works apart from the truth, ever. The Spirit of God does not work apart from biblical truth. No place do you see it working that way. It's always the Spirit strengthens the inner man so we can grasp the truth of the love of God. Or here we see the Spirit sets the mind on things of the Spirit. In other words, the law of God, which, of course, the Word of God is what the Spirit wrote. It's very, very dangerous. You might say Christian experience is always more than biblical doctrine, but never less. And unless you understand that, unless you get it together, we're going to be in a lot of trouble. And we are actually in a lot of trouble. I have a couple other things I mention here I have a brother-in-law, his name is Jim and one day something came very clear to me I sometimes visit him and he never wears a seatbelt so I used to always kid him, why don't you wear your seatbelt one day I got in the car with him and he immediately hooked up and said get your seatbelt on I said, hmm, to what do we owe this great transformation of character to what we owe this obvious substantial change to your personality. Something deep has happened to you. And he says, I'll tell you what happened. I'll tell you what happened. I went to see a friend of mine who didn't have a seatbelt on and who went through his windshield and who had something like 200 stitches in his face. And ever since I saw him in the hospital, I have always worn my seatbelt. And I thought, Jim's a Christian, and we sat and thought about this for a while. I said, did you get new information? I mean, is that what made the change? I mean, did you say, I mean, did you not know that if you have your seatbelt on, 75% of all the accidents which were fatal wouldn't be fatal? I mean, didn't you know the statistics? He said, I knew it all. It wasn't that he got new information. It's just that the information became new. do. He had an experience of the information. It came home. It came home, what, to his emotions? Well, no. It came home to his heart. It came home to his center. And then it affected him emotionally because you can't have your heart affected without affecting you emotionally. But you can be affected emotionally without affecting your heart. Hear that? You can be affected by truth. You can't be affected by truth in the heart without affecting you emotionally. Because when it affects you in the heart, it affects everything. Your mind, it changes your thinking, it affects and stirs up your emotions, and it changes your will or your behavior. So you can't have truth affect your heart without it affecting your emotions, but you definitely can have it affect your emotions without affecting your heart. You can get all stirred up by something and not have really understood it, not have it really sunk down. The Holy Spirit puts it in the heart. It sensitizes the heart. And it creates real changes. What is love? is not a feeling, but it's more than a feeling, but not less. It's an action, it's a feeling, and it's a thinking. What is zeal? It's an action, a thinking, and a feeling. What is peace? It's all of them. These are the things that show up. Real peace, real love, real zeal, real courage, real joy is the work of the Spirit in reaction to the truth. It takes the truth and lays it in there. The truth develops glory. If you read about the love of God without the spirit, you know about it. You read about the love of God and the spirit brings it on in. You're melted and you become loving. Suppose you read about a sin. Now listen. Suppose you hear about a sin. Suppose tonight I would happen to get on something and say, this is wrong. The Bible clearly forbids it. And you know that you're doing it. Well, if you say, yeah, I feel kind of guilty about that. that it's not such a good idea. Or maybe you think, I don't think I agree with this preacher, but on the other hand, I may not think about it. Or maybe you'll say, I don't believe what he's saying at all. Or maybe you'll say, I've always known that, but I just live at it because I can't change it. There's been no operation of the Spirit in your life.

But if instead of just feeling mildly guilty, instead you find yourself hating the sin, in a new way. When you hate the sin, what happens is it loses its power over you because it loses its ability to attract you. It loses its ability to control you. When you find yourself hating it, that's because the spirit of God has taken the truth and is actually imprinting it on your heart and the likeness of the holiness of God is beginning to show up because that's what the law is. The delineation. The outline of the holiness of God himself. self. Do you get it? And that's the reason why the work of the Spirit is so absolutely important and critical. It's more than truth, but never less than truth. And it's something, I know it's strange to hear a Presbyterian type person say this, if you don't feel down in your heart the truth, the Spirit of God's not working in you. Nothing in the Bible is there just simply to be eaten. The Bible, we're told to taste the truth, to take it on in, to digest it, to let it dwell in you richly. What is that? That spiritual experience. That's the fullness of the spirit, which is all the same thing. Now, last week we talked about three ministries and I actually talked about two of them and I really gave the last one short shrift and I want to change that tonight. I put down here in a little bit more detail something about the first two ministries. You see, if the ministry of the Spirit is basically a floodlight ministry, making Jesus real to you, then that's the thing it has in common in every one of these three ministries. But it's very important, as I'm going to try to show you, to understand there's basically three kinds of floodlight ministries that the Holy Spirit does. One is when you're born again, Again, it's called the Ministry of Regeneration, and we talked about that last week. So I don't think I'm going to go over it too much. The second one is the Ministry of Sanctification, which we talked about last week. And the third one is the Ministry of High Assurance and Power, and that's the one I want to talk about a bit more.

the only thing I could say that I didn't mention last week about the ministry of regeneration is the indwelling of the spirit is really the indwelling of the spirit is necessary to be a Christian and the passage we just read Romans 8 verse 11 talks about the spirit quickening us when we're born again, if you don't have any sensation that ever happened to you, you're probably not a believer. See, it's one thing to say I was always raised in Christianity, but even people who really came to Christ at an early age have some concept of having been quickened.

When the Bible says you're spiritually dead, it realizes that there's different levels of deadness. mention it here. You see, for example, vegetable life is life, isn't it? Because there's growth. And what else makes vegetable life? There's photosynthesis is part of vegetable life. So there's growth, and there's nourishment, and there's a life cycle. And yet animal life, compared to vegetable life, seems so much higher than vegetable life. Vegetable life almost seems like deadness compared to animal life. I mean, if you look at a flower and look at a dog, The flower doesn't seem nearly as alive as the dog. And it's not. Animal life is quite a bit higher. There's movement and motion and so on. But then take a look at a dog and look at a human being. And the human being, his life is so much higher than the dog's life because there's a consciousness and an ability to reflect. And there's personality. And there's a certain sense in which if a human being, because of some horrible birth defect or because of some kind of accident, finds him or herself living at the level of an animal, we really call that a living death, don't we? And it is. Spiritual life is as far above ordinary human mental life as human mental life is above animal life. That's what the Bible says when it says you need the Holy Spirit to quicken you. You were spiritually dead. What does it mean to be spiritually dead? It means you were blind. It means you couldn't see or taste or understand spiritual things, and one day you wake up. Not necessarily in one moment or even one day. It can be a process, but you wake up. The Bible talks about that, and we talked about that last week. Essentially, it comes like this. Have you ever taken a look at a picture with all these blotches, all these blotches, and then the person says, look carefully because in there, there is a you know, there's an elephant in there or there's a house in there or there's a castle or something like that. And you look at the blotches and you look at the blotches and you say, I don't see a thing. And then suddenly you see it. And then no matter how hard you try, you can't not see it. Right? And what happened? Did you get new parts? Was it that they were unveiling new parts? What happened when you suddenly saw the castle so in such a way that you could never not see it. The answer is you saw the blotches in a relationship to one another. You changed your ability to check out the relationships. When that happened, suddenly it all came together and you saw something you didn't see before even though your brain, your mind, your eyes were taking in the same items. Suddenly you saw relationships that you didn't see before and bingo, it makes sense. You can't stop seeing it. That's what it means You may have heard all the talk. You talked about Jesus Christ dying on the cross. Sin. You've heard all that. And one day. Suddenly it all comes together. You know why? It's like looking at a puzzle. And the missing piece for years and years. Has been you. Suddenly you see how it relates to you. You've always heard. Yes Jesus Christ died. But now you suddenly. The first time you're able to say. He died for me. Now I see how it all relates to me. Now I see how it all relates. Clowney, the ex-president of the seminary I used to talk at, had this great little phrase that I've never forgotten. He says, what's the difference between knowledge and wisdom? He says, wisdom is knowledge with the knower left in. Wisdom is different than knowledge because in wisdom you see how it relates to you. And on the day that happens, you've passed from death to life. Now, the second ministry is the ministry of sanctification. And I'll tell you another we haven't talked about that here, or I'm not going to talk about it that much now, but it's important to mention it briefly, is because we actually, whether you know it or not, those of you who are here, then spent the whole fall on this. Romans 8 is telling us that there's two parts to growing in the Spirit, repentance and faith, repentance and faith. The way in which The way the Holy Spirit got you into the kingdom of God is by helping you repent for your sins and then showing you how to rest and believe in Jesus. Two things. Repent and believe. How do you grow in the faith? How do you grow on? How does the Holy Spirit help you grow and grow and more like Christ? Does it bring you to something that's utterly different? Did you repent and believe to get into the kingdom, but now you go on some other way? No. You still repent and believe. leave. Spiritual power, the spiritual process through which the Holy Spirit helps you grow in love and joy and peace and in the fruit of the Spirit is the same process. It's repenting and believing, or the way we put it in the fall was identifying the idols of the heart and finding your identity in Christ. I mean, just to give you an example of one sanctification cycle in my life, I remember I was a Christian for just three or four years. And I was in a Christian fellowship. And I was up to be elected, what I thought, was a shoe-in to be president. Of this particular Christian fellowship. Every year you elected officers. And I was pretty sure I was in. And the guy who was my best friend who ended up being, becoming my, he was the best man in my wedding. And a very dear friend in many ways. He was the president the year before. He came to me and he said, I don't think you should be president. As a matter of fact, he says, I'm going to try to change the whole structure of the fellowship so there's not a president next year. I said, why? He says, because I don't want you to be president and I think you'd be elected. I said, why? He says, because you have too many mood swings, you're too immature, and people who don't know you very well don't know that.

and of course I you know the spiritual giant that I was I said I see just what you mean you know you're absolutely right I you know

I was what a man no I was furious not outside in the inside I didn't say oh I see say that. But nor, on the other hand, would I say, you're kidding, right? I hadn't lived in New York at that time, so I didn't know how to do that. So I stuffed it, and I spent at least the next four or five months really angry and depressed. And what eventually happened was the Spirit of, see, at times like that, that is the opportunity for the Spirit to do his second floodlight ministry. And the second floodlight ministry is to come and through repentance and faith, make your sins real to you in a way they weren't before and to make Jesus real to you so that you rely on him in a way you didn't before. And so, for example, I came to realize, you know, it should have been pretty obvious and it's pretty obvious to me now, that I, the reason I was so devastated, I wasn't able to shrug it off. The reason I was so devastated was I was taking a tremendous amount of my own sense of self-worth out of the fact that I was being recognized as a spiritual authority. You know, I didn't know what else I was good at. You know, I was, you know, I was big but not terribly athletic. You know, I was smart but I never could quite, you know, break into the upper echelons. What was I good at? And when I became a Hey, here's something I'm good at. And I was slowly finding that I was turning Christianity into a place where I was able to shine. And I started to say, hey, now I really see that I'm an okay person because here's something I can excel at. And when Bruce comes along to me and says, oh, no. Oh, no way. We're not going to put you on the top of the mountain. I was devastated because I had to be there. I needed to be there. And I was bitter at him because a goal, something that was way too important to me in my life, an Isaac. You know how God comes to Abraham and says, Isaac is too important to you. I want you to kill him. Nothing should be more important than me. God had come to me and said, this thing is too important to you. Out. Oh, no. And I did everything I could to rationalize the fact that I should have been president. This is a democratic country. I don't know. And eventually I began to say, hey, I see an idol here. I see something that's wrong. I see something I'm relying on more than Jesus Christ. See, it's not enough for me that Jesus is my Savior. I've also got to be present of this thing. And then I began to say, well, you know what? You know, first of all, I began to realize Bruce is right. I'm not going to tell him that I know that. But more than that, the fact is that I'm even this close that only Bruce sees. It shows that it's kind of under control, those mood swings. And it's just the grace of God that I've come this far. And if I'm ever going to actually get to be anything, I'm going to have to really change. And it's all been of grace anyway. So if I'm going to make it, up to now I haven't attained anything. It's only been of grace anyway. So I began to look at who Jesus was, and I began to rely on him more. And over a period of six months, though it took a long time before I could really put it right with Bruce on that, I was able, in small ways, the Spirit of God was able to come and say, your sin. It was an intellectual thing before, but I'm sensitizing the plate, the Spirit says, and I'm going to use this information to let your sins really become distasteful to you. And the Holy Spirit also comes and says, you know, Jesus Christ, you thought you relied on him, but look, you don't rely on him hardly at all. You rely on your attainments. You rely on your reputation. You draw very, very little solace and consolation from the fact that he is your brother, the fact that he is your savior. And I said, that's right. And that's a sanctification cycle. Small one, critical one. And that's why it says right here, and we read it, if you live according to the sinful nature, you will die. But if by the spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, the sinful nature, you will live. If by the spirit, so that's it. That's what happened. and nobody grows except like that. There is no way the Spirit makes you leapfrog over verse 13. You cannot say, I don't want to go through an eternal process of always having to see my sin in new ways so that I rely on Christ in new ways. I don't want to do that. That's the only way it happens. It's a process. It's an ongoing process. When Paul talks about it in Ephesians 5, he says, be filled with the Spirit, and he uses a present progressive. You sense the power of the spirit in your life when you're constantly repenting and rejoicing and then repenting and rejoicing and repenting and rejoicing. As you go along, you grow in the humility, you grow in the wisdom, you grow in the faith, you grow in the patience, and so on. The last ministry, and this is what I have to really show you. High assurance and power.

I hope the one thing you're going to remember tonight is what I'm telling you next here. That is, there's an outline The outline is that there's three ways the Bible uses the term filling of the Spirit. I hope to show you that if you don't understand there's three of them, and if you don't understand how they are different from each other, you can get, to use a theological term, really screwed up. Now, first of all, the Bible talks about the filling of the Spirit when it describes being born again. So, for example, in Acts 9, 17 and 18, when Paul is converted, When Paul is converted, we're told he was filled with the Spirit. Because, of course, you're filled with the Spirit when you're converted. We're told in Colossians 2, 9 and 10, it says, and all the fullness of the Godhead dwells in Christ bodily, and you have come to fullness in him. When you receive Christ, who is the fullness, certainly you've come to fullness. Of course, you're filled with the Spirit at that point. And we know this. If you're filled with the Spirit in the Acts 9 kind of filling, is to be dead, is to be unsaved. So if you're not filled with the Spirit in this first sense, you're outside of the kingdom. The second sense is the sanctification sense. So I put down here, in sanctification, we're filled through constant repenting and believing, repenting and believing. So Ephesians 5, 18 is a famous place where Paul says, go on being filled with the Spirit. And he uses a present progressive verb. And it's obviously something that's supposed to be continual and constant. And Ephesians 5.18 matches up perfectly with Colossians 3.16. Ephesians 5.18 says, be filled with the Spirit and submit to one another and make melody to God in your heart and admonish one another with songs and hymns and spiritual songs. And in Colossians 3.16, it says, let the word dwell in you richly. And then it says the same things. on one another with songs and hymns and spiritual songs and make melody in your heart and submit to each other, which shows that Paul thinks that being fulfilled with the Spirit and having the Word of God dwell on you richly is the same thing. It's that process of repentance and faith, repentance and believing, through which you're purified, through which you find yourself dying more and more to the old works-righteousness way of thinking about yourself and your life and living by grace, not living as a frightened slave, but as a son or a daughter of the King. that takes time. Then there is a third filling. And the third filling, oh, by the way, the opposite of the second filling is to be disobedient. If you're not filled with the Spirit in the second sense, Ephesians 5 sense, you're disobedient. Now, listen. But lastly, the Spirit sometimes fills you with the Spirit and brings a high assurance, and I put down here, an immediate sense of God's presence and love. This is amazing. In Acts 4, we're told that the apostles were threatened with death if they continued to preach the gospel. They got together and have this remarkable prayer full of praise and asking God for his kingdom to come. They don't even ask for protection. They just say, oh Lord, you know, help us not to chicken out. They don't say, oh help us, save our children, put a new administration in, a better mayor next time, but they don't say that. They say, Lord, you are great, help us to stand by you, and then we're told the place that they were meeting was shaken, and they were filled with the Spirit, and they spoke the word with boldness. What is that? Now, it can't mean they were filled with the Spirit, because before that, they weren't born again. Can't be an Acts 9 filling, and I don't believe it means that before that they were being disobedient. So it's not an Ephesians 5 feeling. Well, what is it? It's something else. It's still got to be a floodlight ministry where God makes, where the Holy Spirit makes Jesus real, and that's what it is. And I put down here, this is the place and the time when the Spirit makes Jesus so real, and His love is so immediate, that you have not inferential assurance, but intuitive assurance. what's that well when I say inferential all Christians have assurance that they're saved but they infer it that means they say no I'm saved because I'm relying on Christ for salvation I'm not relying on my good works I see some growth in my life I see some changes and you see you infer from the facts that you are really a Christian intuitive assurance is when you experience it directly on your heart you don't have to sit around and say I know air. It overwhelms you. It's something that is immediate. And because it's that real, it creates a tremendous boldness in your life. Because I'll tell you something, when you're talking to someone about Christ, when you're having, when this particular anointing is on you, you do it really well. Why? Because you're seeing what you're talking about. You've got your eye on him even as you're describing him. That's why your description can be so vivid. And it's essentially an experience of the presence of God. Now, the reason this is so important to bring out, let me tell you about what has been going on for about an entire century. Back in the early 1900s, a movement broke out of people who experienced this anointing with power, and when they experienced it, it was accompanied by tongues. Now, as a result, this was the early Pentecostal movement, and as a result, they determined that speaking in tongues was the sign of this high assurance and this anointing with power. And they essentially taught, look, once you become a Christian, you're born again, but then they will say, there's a second great work of grace in which the baptism of the Spirit comes in, and you have this great power, and the sign of it is speaking in tongues. Now, a lot of people got pretty upset about that for a couple of reasons. One is, when you read the Bible, you'll see that sometimes in the book of Acts, when the power comes on people, there's tongues, but sometimes it's not. In Acts chapter 4, the one I just read, you read through that and you'll see there's no mention of such a thing.

Secondly, in the history of the church, there have been times in which great awakenings have come. Now, you know what a great awakening is? is a great awakening is simply a time in which the high assurance falls on a whole church or a whole community or a whole country for a long period of time. And when that happens, the reality of Christ is so great, they can cut it with a knife and it just controls them, and there's great boldness and there's great compassion and everything. You know, you're not afraid of what anybody thinks, because Jesus is more real to you than anything else. More real. Look, why do so few of us tithe? Why do so few of us really give as much of our income to God's work as we ought to? Because the eternal world is not as real to you as the physical world. Why do so many people, why do so many of us know that we should probably let people know that we're Christians and talk up and speak a word for our master, but we don't do it because we're scared? I'll tell you why. world is less real to us. The verdict of God is less real to us than the verdict of our friends. When the high assurance comes on you, the eternal world is more real than any of those things. And you suddenly, you know, that's what we call an awakening when that falls on a whole lot of people at once. And people who knew something about the history of awakenings knew that tongues sometimes was there, but usually it was not. Tongues could be there, might not be there. And so what happened was, it was an opposition to the Pentecostal movement grew amongst Bible believing Christians, and it hardened. And they didn't like any talk about what I'm telling you about now. The opposition said, listen, when you're born again, you get the fullness of the spirit, and that's that. And of course, if you grow and you obey him, you'll sense some of the filling of the spirit, but that's that. Don't talk about this other stuff. Don't talk about power. Don't talk about anointing. Don't talk about this. I don't want to hear it. now one of the real problems one of the reasons we've had so much trouble getting together on this was because John Wesley had this very experience and he made another mistake now I think the Pentecostal mistake is they took the experience of speaking in tongues and they wedded it to the high assurance and they said they always go together which just isn't true John Wesley's mistake was he took sanctification and the high assurance, and he wedded them together. When you have this great experience of the reality of God, you find a desire to live in a very godly life, but it does not automatically sanctify you. And I think some of you know what I'm talking about. Because when you sense the reality of God, that doesn't mean that suddenly, you have very immature people in the Lord, people who are not very good in relationships, just people who are not really very self-controlled, people who are not really good at peace, love, and joy, they can sometimes get this sense of God's presence and become very bold people, but it does not instantly help them leapfrog over that great process of growing to be like Christ. They're still immature, and yet God is very real to them. John Wesley made the mistake of thinking that when he had that experience, all sin was eradicated, and he put those two things together, and we've been doing it ever since.

very real example, personal example. There are some times, hopefully you can understand it, there are some times in which when a man is preaching, he's just doing it. And that means he's come with his notes and he's going through what he's saying, and if it's biblical, everybody goes, wait a second, I learned something, it was very good, it was very helpful. Then there's other times in which when you're speaking, speaking, you find yourself kind of lifted up, and you almost feel like somebody's speaking through you, and you sit there and you say, boy, this is great. I wish I had thought of this. Where is it coming from? And you sense it, and very often the congregation senses it, and it's the same thing. What just happens is God gets very real to you, and there's a particular power and reality, and so on. Now, what that is, is that is an It's a spiritual gift. It's a high assurance. It's an anointing of power. But it is not an operation of my spiritual fruit.
