The scripture reading is Psalm 113, verses 1 through 9. Praise the Lord. Praise, O servants of the Lord. Praise the name of the Lord. Let the name of the Lord be praised both now and forevermore. From the rising of the sun to the place where it sets, the name of the Lord is to be praised. The Lord is exalted over all the nations, his glory above the heavens. Who is like the Lord our God, the one who sits enthroned on high, who stoops down to look on the heavens and the earth? He raises the poor from the dust and lifts the needy from the ash heap. He seats them with the princes, with the princes of their people. He settles the barren woman in her home as a happy mother of children. Praise the Lord. This is the word of the Lord. This psalm looks back to the song of Hannah in 1 Samuel chapter 1 and 2, and looks forward to the song of Mary. In 1 Samuel chapter 1 and 2, it says, in Luke 1, the Magnificat, where Mary sings, because she's been told she's going to give birth to Jesus. Mary's song borrows from the language of this psalm and borrows from the language of Hannah's song, and therefore there's a theme running through all of these psalms, these songs, that will shed light on what Christmas is about. And here's what Christmas is about. The infinitely high becoming inconceivably low, the infinitely huge becoming astoundingly small, or put it another way, there's a protocol that God has when it comes to renewing the world and renewing the life. The protocol is he tends to work through the poor to renew the world, and he tends to work through weakness and suffering to renew you. Let's take a look at this protocol. First of all, as God depicts it in Psalm 113, and then as Jesus Christ works it out through his own life. First of all, let's see how God uses the protocol, then how Jesus uses the protocol. Now, what do I mean protocol? It means a habitual way that God has to do renewal. And he uses two case studies at the end of this psalm. He raises the poor from the dust and lifts the needy from the ash heap. He sees the poor and the needy from the ash heap. He meets them with princes, with the princes of their people. That's the first case study. Okay, let's look at that first. We're describing the economically poor. In fact, these are the poorest of the poor. What you have, for example, is the poor sitting in the dust. Now, if you sit in the dust, you're either homeless or you have a mud hut. You don't even have a floor. You don't even have a rug. You don't have any furniture. You're sitting in the dust. But the actual, the most vivid metaphor for being the poorest of the poor is the second clause. And he lifts the needy from the ash heap. Now, in the old King James Bible, this is called, it's translated dunghill. And the reason for that is that the Hebrew word refers to a rubbish heap, a garbage heap. And when you went out of a city, Jerusalem or any city, in any direction, not close, not far from the gates, when you first came through the gates, there were a number. There were a number of rubbish heaps because that's where you threw your garbage. You threw your garbage outside the city, not in the city. It would smell and it was a hazard. They would throw their rubbish on the rubbish heaps just outside the gate. And they would incinerate it every so often. Every so often, you'd set fire to it to destroy it, to burn it down, to get rid of the smell. And therefore, the rubbish heaps were ash heaps. It was the place of incineration. Now, now, God tells us that some poor people are on the ash heap. These are the poorest of the poor. They do scavenging on the rubbish heaps, the ash heaps, to find food and find items. This is the poorest of the poor. But we're told God loves the poorest of the poor. He comes to them and he lifts them up. God is not so great. See, the first part of the psalm is about how high he is, how great he is. He's over all cultures. He's over all nations. He has to stoop down to even look at the heavens. That's how high he is. But he comes down to the lowest of the lowest of the low, into the dust, to the ash heap, and he lifts them up. That's his protocol. He loves to go after the people without power, after the people without wealth. He loves to go to the poor and lift them up and seat them with the princes of their people. Now, this is the first principle. And let me press it a little bit, just a little bit. This is how God works. If you look at the Bible, go to the book of Genesis, you'll see God always chooses the less powerful child. You know, the first son, the second son, the first son in ancient cultures got all of everything, got all the wealth, primogeniture. And yet in every case, God always works through Abel, not Cain, through Isaac, not Ishmael, through Jacob, not Esau, on and on and on. Then you get to the book of Exodus. God looks at Egypt. The most powerful society. The most powerful society in the world at that time. But God chooses their slave laborers. He chooses the slaves, the weakest members of that society, the poorest members of that society, the most powerless members, and makes them his instruments of salvation for the rest of the history of the world. And when you go through the Bible, you'll see whenever God chooses someone to be a deliverer, someone through whom he's going to work salvation, what do they all have in common? What does Jacob have in common? Joseph have in common? Moses have in common? With Moses, with David, they were all fugitives. They were all exiles. They lost everything. They were powerless. They were weak. That's God's protocol. Now, let me be bold about this. If somebody says, well, now, are you saying that God loves poor people more than he loves middle class or rich people? No, I'm not saying that. What I'm saying is that the way God ordinarily works in the world is through the poor and the outcast. You will always find... And this has always been the case in the last 2,000 years and past. Christianity has always been the most vital. God has always been working in the most astounding ways in those parts of the world that are away from the centers of power. This is the reason why today Christianity is growing at 10 times, 20 times the population, not in North America, certainly not in Europe. It's in Africa and Latin America and Asia. You know, occasionally we throw numbers around that, that always shock Westerners. You know, there's... Did you know there are more Presbyterians in Ghana than in all of America and all of Scotland put together? Do you know that there's something like... There's four times more Anglicans, Episcopalians, in Uganda than there are in all of America. And there's three times more Anglicans in Nigeria than there are in all of Britain and America put together. And you say, how did that happen? Don't you know? That's the way it is, and here's the way... Here's why. Let me be bold here. Middle-class people don't like supernatural, born-again, grace-based religion. You read the Bible, and it says you've got to be born again. You can only be saved through a miracle. God has to intervene in your life. There has to be hallelujah. There has to be glory. You have to repent. You have to admit that you're a sinner. There has to be blood atonement. That's the Bible. Middle-class people don't like that. We've been told... that you get where you're going to get by trying your best. And middle-class people say, hey, I've gotten where I've gotten because I've tried very, very hard. Yeah and no. Listen, this city is filled with kids who've been raised in messed-up homes, been raised in difficult neighborhoods. By the time they get to be 14 or 15, they can hardly read and write. They're way behind, ever having any marketable skills. Why? Because they weren't born in my home. They were born in another home. When you see the poor of this city, you ask the liberals, why are they like that? And the liberals will say, structural racism. And you ask the conservatives, why are they like that? And they say, a lack of family values. But here's the interesting thing. Nobody says it's the kids' fault. There is an inequitable, in the extreme, distribution of resources and opportunities in this world. And the poor know it. And the poor know, yeah, hard work, of course, is better than not hard work, absolutely. But they also realize that people are born in different places. And therefore, the poor know that, in general, the people who've got stuff have got it by grace. They've got it by grace. And when middle-class people want a religion, with all the supernatural stuff taken out, all the blood atonement, all the repentance, all the born-again stuff, oh, come on. I just believe in a kind of religion that I believe in. I believe in a God of love. And I believe that you just need to try your very best to live a good life and try to make this world a better place. Don't talk to me about being born again. Don't talk to me about having to repent. Don't talk to me about all that sort of thing. The poor will never take that kind of religion. It'll never take the religion the middle-class likes. The poor understand the gospel innately. The poor will always gravitate. They always have gravitated to biblical religion. It's an embarrassment to the middle classes, even today. And that's the reason why wherever you get away from the margins of power, that is where the gospel is growing and doing the most powerful work. It is today. He loves the poor. He's attracted to them. The people on the ash heap, the people in the dust, that's one of the things that, if anything, but it's not the only thing, it's one of the things that Christmas is about. Jesus came as a poor man. Jesus came into a poor family. He was born in a manger. A feed trough. He was born in a stable. So the first part of God's protocol is he changes the world through the outcasts, through the poor. He cares about them. He loves them. The second case study, he settles the barren woman in her home as a happy mother of children. Now, notice this isn't the economically poor. This is the brokenhearted. You might call this psychologically the emotionally poor, the brokenhearted person. And in order to understand the brokenhearted, the place of a barren woman in ancient Israel, you do have to do a little bit of work. But let's do a little bit of work. It wasn't just true in Israel. Well, let me start the sentence again. In every ancient culture, including Israel, the number of children you had completely determined your family's security. The more children you had, the more people worked on the farm. The more children you had, the more pans you had to work in the shop. The more children you had, the more likely you were to, you know, have an old age in which you didn't, starve everything depending on the number of children. Having children was the only way, the main way that you could make a contribution to the security and the future of your family. And that's the reason why Walter Brueggemann, one Hebrew scholar, says, whenever you come to a place in the Bible where it talks about barrenness, he says, barrenness in any Hebrew text, excuse me, barrenness in any Hebrew text, therefore, is the effective metaphor for hopelessness. Barrenness means not only that there is no foreseeable future for self-harm, family and people without children, but also there is no human power to invent a future. But see, Israelite women, there was something even more going on with them. Because God had said to Israel, he says, I'm going to save the world. I'm going to renew the world someday. I'm going to deal with injustice. I'm going to deal with disease. I'm going to deal with evil. I'm going to deal with death. I'm going to bring a salvation to the world, but I'm going to do it through you. I'm creating a new society. I'm creating a new people, a people of God. And out of you will come the salvation for the world. Now, the Israelites didn't quite know how that was going to happen, but they knew that was the promise. And Israelite women knew that they could do something that the Israelite men couldn't do. When you bore children into that society, you were participating in God's saving purposes for the world. And therefore, a barren woman was someone who couldn't participate, who couldn't be part of that incredible storyline, who couldn't give the family and the nation what they wanted. And she was devastated. And she was hopeless. But God repeatedly, the Bible shows us, comes into the lives of the hopeless, comes into the lives of people who feel like, I'm fruitless. I'm not bearing any fruit. I'm not getting anything done. I'm no good for anybody. He comes into the life of Sarah, of Rebecca, of Rachel, of Hannah. And when he brings Hannah a child, she sings in 1 Samuel 2. And this is hearkening back to it. She sings, She who was barren has borne seven children, but she who has had many sons pines away. He raises the poor from the dust. He lifts the needy from the ash heap. He seats them with princes and has them inherit a throne. Now, God is attracted to the brokenness. God is attracted. We've said nobody in the Bible ever seems to be used by God except through brokenness, except through weakness. Why? Because the ultimate example of that is Jesus. Jesus did not bring salvation to the world through strength. Jesus did not bring salvation and renewal into our lives, into your lives, through being strong, but through being weak, and through giving up power, and through losing everything, but trusting God in it. And out of that came fruit, enormous fruit. You see, Jesus' protocol burst the boundaries of this. As incredible as Psalm 113 is, it says, it says, this high God goes down into the dust and brings us up and seats us with the princes of the people. But you know, Jesus goes even deeper and takes us up even higher. He goes even deeper and he takes us up even higher. Let me show you how deep he goes. Jesus Christ went to the ultimate incinerator. He went into the ultimate ash heap. Yes, when he was born in a manger, he was born outside. There was no room for him, we say. But that's just a foreshadowing. Because Hebrews chapter 13 says about his death this. It says, Jesus also suffered death outside the city gate in order to consecrate the people by his own blood. Now what it's saying is that whenever the priests would do the atoning sacrifice for the sins of the people, they sacrificed the animal and they sprinkled the blood in the holy place, but the animal's bodies were burned outside the gate. They were thrown onto the rubbish heap. They were incinerated. And then it goes on and says, Jesus also suffered death outside the city gate in order to consecrate the people by his own blood. And what the Hebrews writer is saying is, Jesus Christ was crucified amongst the rubbish heaps. But more than that, do you know what the word hell means? Both the Greek and the Hebrew word for hell is the word Gehenna. The Hebrew and Greek word for hell are taken from one of the rubbish heaps outside of Jerusalem where garbage is. Where garbage was burned. Why? You were built to center your heart on God. You were built for that. That's what the Bible says. And if you put anything else in the center of your life, in the watches of the night, when you don't have to think of anything else, what do you daydream about? That's your real religion. That's your real God. That's the real joy and beauty of your heart. You know that. It doesn't matter what you believe or you subscribe to. What's the joy of your heart? What do you daydream about when nothing else is making you think of anything? What do you daydream about in the watches of the night? Is it God? You were built to center your whole life on God, to center your soul on God, to find Him your ultimate hope and joy. And if you make anything else, even a good other thing, even a marriage, even children, success, if you make anything else the center of your life, your soul is in a process of incineration. Your soul is in the process of breakdown. You're not built for that. It won't be big enough. It won't be big enough for you. It won't be big enough for what God put in you to desire. He put in you a desire for Him, a love from Him, an honor from Him. That's what every human soul is built for. And if you try to get the love and the honor from anything else, you are in the process of either fast or slow incineration, of disintegration. And you know what hell is? Hell is nothing but God giving us throughout all eternity what our soul has chosen, what every soul has chosen. There's nothing more just than that. There's nothing more fair than that. But Jesus Christ came to earth, and in His graciousness, He went to the ultimate ash heap. On the cross, He lost His Father. On the cross, He was forsaken. On the cross, He was cut off from God. On the cross, His soul incinerated. He experienced hell on the cross. He wasn't just crucified amongst the ash heaps. He was literally in the ultimate ash heap. He took our punishment for us. He was treated as we deserve to be treated. And because He did that, He lifts us up much further than giving us the seats of thrones of the princes. This is what we're told in Ephesians 2. We're told in Ephesians 2, Christ seated us. God has raised us up with Christ and seated us with Him in the heavenly realms in Christ Jesus. Past tense. He has seated us. Not just gave us a seat with the princes. He has seated us in the heavenly realms. Past tense. It doesn't say, if you live a good life and you try real hard, then someday God will seat you in the heavenly realms. That's religion. That's not the gospel. That's middle class. That's not poverty of spirit. That's being middle class in spirit. If I live a good life and I pull myself together, not needing radical grace, but the gospel is radical grace because God treated Jesus as we deserve when you embrace Him. He treats you as Jesus deserves. He sees you as already seated in Him. He rejoices in you. He approves of you. He honors you. And to the degree you understand that, that's the reason why Paul can talk about it in the past tense. To the degree you understand that, to that degree, you will begin to follow God's protocol in your life. What do I mean by that? John Milbank, who's a British, I don't know, I don't know how to say it. He's a professor of both sociology and religion. I guess it's hard to imagine those two things going together. I teach at UVA now. But he wrote a book some years ago called Theology and Social Theory. And it's a fascinating book because he says one of the great mysteries that historians have, to historians, is the early church, the early Christians in the Greco-Roman world. And here's why. If you think about it, the Greco-Roman paganism was what we would consider today extremely open-minded. Everybody had their own God. You know, in the Greco-Roman world, every country had its own God, every city had its own God, and every individual. I worship my God, and you worship that God, and I would never expect that everybody would worship my God. How incredibly open-minded. And along come Christians, and they, in fact, they come along and say, no, there's only one God, one true God. And everyone should worship him from the rising of the sun to the setting over every nation. There's only one true God. How incredibly open-minded. How incredibly exclusive, right? How incredibly narrow. And yet, even though the Greco-Roman world had this open-minded view, at least apparently, and the Christians had this narrow view, apparently, the lives of Christians were absolutely the opposite. In the Greco-Roman world, it was very socially stratified. The wealthy and the poor never, ever mixed. But Christians, in the Christian churches, the rich and the poor and the middle class all came together in scandalous ways. In the Greco-Roman world, the poor were despised, but Christians not only gave with radical generosity to their own poor, but to the poor of every other group, to all poor, whether they believed Christianity or not. These are historical facts. The Christians stayed in the cities when the plagues came and dealt with the urban problems. Christians swept eventually that old pagan world because in spite of the fact they had what looks to us as narrow understanding of God, they were more compassionate, they were more, they were more life-giving, they were more sacrificial in every possible way. Why would that be? That doesn't make any sense. And this is what Milbank says. He says, well, it does, and here's why. He says, ancient paganism's view of reality was basically one of violence. Pagans believed the world did not have a single creator or a savior, but rather a series of competing and warring power centers, both supernatural and natural. Even the sacral order of the gods could only restrain an irredeemably chaotic and conflictual cosmos in certain ways, creating temporary islands of peace. Christianity, however, understood that one creator made the world for peace and harmony. Its violence and disorder was seen as temporary and anomalous, and Christians knew that Jesus Christ would eventually restore it through his death and resurrection. Now, postmodern secularism, like ancient paganism, also sees the world as basically a place of randomness, chaos, survival of the fittest, and violence. And therefore, modern secular reason can give us no more resources for the hopeful, sacrificial living than did ancient paganism. For at the very heart of the Christian view of reality was one, though great, delighted to become small. He died for his enemies. He prayed for their forgiveness. Deep reflection on a savior like this could only lead to a radically different way of dealing with other races and other classes and anyone who is different. There it is. You see, when people say fundamentalism leads to oppression, well, it all depends on what your fundamental is. If your fundamental is the great God who became infinitely small and went to the ash heap and died for his enemies to lift us up, that can't lead to oppression. It doesn't lead to oppression. It never has. And the poor of the world understand it because they don't know it. They flock to it. And to the degree that you are not just a religious person, but you grasp the gospel, that you see that you were spiritually bankrupt, that you have absolutely nothing of value for God, that he only saved you through his radical generosity and grace, as soon as that really grabs you in the soul, you don't look down your nose at anybody. How could you possibly ever again? And you'll care for God's poor. Let me just close by this. When somebody says, all right, what are you supposed to do about it? Here's a suggestion. This may sound very, very weird. Here's my suggestion. Really give. You say, oh yeah, it was Christmas. I get all these end of the year letters. Give, charity. You know, Redeemer needs money. The poor need money. Jeff White needs money. Yeah, charity. Okay, that's right. It's a good time of the year to give. No. I didn't just say give. Listen. You want to follow in God's footsteps. You want to follow the protocol of God, the thing that saves us. You have to give to the point that it brings you down. See, God came down. He didn't keep his glory. He emptied himself of his glory. He came down to lift us up. Now, here's how far I want you to give. Give until you're being brought down. Give until you can't go places that otherwise you could go. You can't dress in the ways otherwise you could dress. You can't eat at places that otherwise you could eat. Really give. Lower your lifestyle. Give to the point. Give to the church. Give to your friends. Give to the church. Give to others. Give to the poor. Give like that. And then, because you're going to be starting in some small way to lift others up because you finally brought yourself down. Otherwise, don't just throw a few dollars in the plate. I mean, that's just practical step number one. The other thing I'd suggest is if you feel barren, what you have to do is you have to say, Lord, I give you my barrenness. That's what Hannah did. That's what they all did. What does that mean? It means to say, I don't know how you're going to make me fruitful, but I know I'm not going to become fruitful if I stop trusting you, if I escape from you, if I run away from you, if I get bitter. I know that this is how you work. I know this is your protocol. I know you will enrich my life and the life of people around me if I simply trust you in the brokenness, and I will. Follow his protocol. He raises the poor from the dust. He lifts the needy from the ash heap. He settles the barren woman in her home and makes her happy. He loves the brokenhearted to make them happy. He loves the poor to make them rich. He became poor so that he could do that. Walk in accordance with this gospel. Let us pray. Father, we ask that you would help us to think of what the meaning of Christmas is in terms of the needy, the poor, the barren. Make us a compassionate people. Teach us how to come down to lift others up as you did. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.