for our sins and not for ours only, not only for ours, but also for the sins of the whole world. Now, what's the problem? What's the solution? First of all, the problem is sin. And you know, just before this passage begins where we picked it up in our reading, in verse 6, and we looked at this actually last week briefly. John says, if you say you have fellowship with God but walk in darkness, you're deceived. Now that's a pretty astonishing statement. He is saying that there are many people in this world who think they're Christians and are actually walking in darkness. He says there's people who think that they have fellowship with God. They think that they're right with God and they don't. That's got to be one of the more frightening things that anybody can read in the Bible. You could be a non-Christian, you could be a non-believer and think you're a believer. You can be self-deceived. Now he says that in verse 6 and immediately goes on and explains. He says, in verse 8, if we say we have no sin, we're deceived. and if we say we have not sinned, we make God to be a liar. In other words, John is saying self-deceived people, people who think they know God and they don't, people who think that they're right with God and who are not, are always in that condition because they do not understand the full depth and extent of their sin. Now let's take a moment or two to see what he's saying. is tremendous analysis. He says that self-deception starts here. All of the mistakes that people make about Christianity start right here. You don't know that you're a sinner. See, in verse 8, he says, if we say we have not sinned, if we say we have no sin, we're deceived. And then in verse 10, he says, if we say we have not sinned, we make him out to be a liar. Now, right there, you have a wonderful of the biblical doctrine of sin. First, he says, before we have sinned, we have sin. You notice that, verse 8 and verse 10? John is not just repeating himself. He says, if we say we have no sin, and then verse 10, he says, if we say we have not sinned. And his teaching is this, before sin is a set of violations. Violations against rules. Before it is that, before it is a body of particular actions, it's a whole nature. It's a whole stance. It's a whole outlook. And this is where people go wrong. If you think of sin mainly in terms of particular violations, you will not think that you're a sinner. You will know that you sin. You'll admit it in an intellectual way, but you won't be profoundly affected by it. John says before you know you've sinned, you have to know you have sin before you think of sins as particular violations. Because if you look at the rules, look at all the rules in the Bible. There's a lot of rules and you can feel pretty good about yourself if you look at the rules. But John says, no, here's where people go wrong. You don't understand that you have sin, that you have a sinful nature. Sin is an entire outlook. In John, Not in John, in Romans chapter 3, verse 9. And a lot of us are studying Romans together this year in small groups. Paul says an amazing thing. He says, For all, Gentile and Jew alike, are under sin. It's an amazing statement. Because if you go back into Romans 1 and 2, you'll see. In Romans 1, he's talking about not just Gentiles in general. He's talking about the pagan Greco-Roman world. And he's talking about people who live tremendously debauched lives, twisted lives, violent lives. And then he describes the Jews, and he's not talking about any Jews, he's talking about the religious Jews. He's talking about Jews that were very absolutely fastidiously and conscientiously striving to obey the Ten Commandments. And then he has the audacity to say, after surveying all of these people, in chapter 3, verse 9, Alike. Under sin. Now how could he say that? Especially that word alike. How could he do that? Because you see, sin, before it's a bunch of violations. Sure, here's the pagan Greco-Romans and here's the Jews. And let's take a look at the Ten Commandments. Who's sinning more? Well, obviously the Greco-Romans. Look at their orgies, you know. Who's sinning less? Look at these conscientious Jewish people. They're sinning less if you think of sin primarily as a set of violations. But before you see it as that, you have to understand it as a disposition of the whole person. It's not enough for you just to say, I have sinned. That's verse 10. You have to say, I have sinned. Sin is like a culture. You have no idea how pervasive your culture is until you leave it. Isn't that right? You have no idea. People who have come here from other lands and other cultures, you get an idea of how pervasive culture is. For example, you know, one culture, in one culture you may think you're just neat. And you go live in another culture and you say, these people are pigs. But when those people come to your culture and to your land, they look around and say, what a bunch of anally fixated people. What a bunch of uptight, you know, pinched people. Everything's got to be picked up. You can't even live here. You don't even realize how pervasive your culture is till you get out of it. And then you see that in thousands of ways, your culture influences the way you look at everything. John says, until you come to understand that sin is a very disposition, it's a whole outlook, it's a whole way of thinking, it's a whole way of living, it's a way of organizing your thoughts

it's to be human-centered and not God-centered. And if you want a perfect example of it, let me give you a real perfect little example. Whether you're a Christian or not, you'll recognize this. When do you pray the most? When you're in trouble. 86% of all people, you survey them, I read this years ago, 86% of all people who go to the hospital think a whole lot more about God in the hospital than they did before. That shouldn't be so surprising. You know, some government grant, you know, millions of dollars probably went into that. But now you know. But that's the whole outlook of sin. The outlook of sin is God is there for me. I don't think of God unless I have a need. And then when I have a need, I wonder why did God let this happen to me? I only think about God in terms of my joy, my happiness, my needs. He's there for me. I think of him as there for me. and if he's not operating in such a way that seems conducive to what I think is advantageous to me, I get upset and I get angry. We don't think of God as light, as there, just there, as sovereign. We don't look at God and say, because you are true, because you are real, because you're there, it doesn't matter whether or not serving you is advantageous to me. I owe you my life. See, that the power of sin has been broken over you. The minute you stop getting upset about unanswered prayer, the minute you stop saying, how dare God do this and that and that. You see, when you talk like that, you don't understand that's the whole outlook of sin. Or as one psychiatrist put it, put it this way, the basic human disorder is theomania, the desire to be God, the desire to be the playwright in history instead of an actor in history. That's the outlook of sin. And you see, what's interesting is if you don't understand that, if you don't understand that everything you do and say is influenced by sin, if you don't see sin as the desire to be God instead of be under God, if you don't see sin as the desire to have

if you don't understand that you'll never see yourself as a sinner and this is why John says if you don't understand the depth and extent of your sin you will be deceived and you'll make out a liar see in verse 8 he says if you don't see how sinful you are you're deceived and in verse 10 he says if you don't see how sinful you are you make out a liar just a moment on that do you realize how dangerous it is not to believe that you are a wicked sinner. You're deceived. Now I hope there's people here, I expect there are. I'm pretty sure there are. And I hope there's people here who think that what I'm saying is just horrible. I hope there's people here who are saying, I cannot believe it, that here's a man with more than an eighth grade education who still believes this. Here's a person in the middle of Manhattan talking about us being wicked sinners. How primitive. Nobody believes this anymore. How terrible for self-esteem. I'm afraid for you. Here's a man named C.E.M. Jode some years ago who came back to Christianity after having left it for 40 years. And this is what he said. It is because we rejected the doctrine of original sin, he says, that we on the left were always being disappointed. Disappointed by the refusal of people to be reasonable, by the subservience of intellect to emotion, by the failure of true socialism to arrive, by the behavior of the nations, by the behavior of the politicians, by the masses' preference for Hollywood to Shakespeare and Mr. Sinatra to Beethoven, and above all, by the recurrent fact of war. He says, we decided to get rid of the idea of original sin, and as a result, we couldn't understand anything that happened to us. John says if you say you don't have sin you're living in a dream world and horrible things are going to happen to you Dorothy Sayers who was a Christian and never gave it up puts it in a beautiful way she says a young intelligent priest remarked to me the other day that he thought one of the greatest sources of strength in Christianity lays in its profoundly pessimistic view of human nature there's a great deal in what he says the people who are most discouraged despondent by the barbarity and the stupidity of human behavior are those who cling to the belief in the civilizing influence of progress and enlightenment. To them, the appalling outbursts of bestial ferocity in the totalitarian states, the obstinate selfishness and stupid greed of people are not merely shocking and alarming. For them, these things are the utter negation of everything in which they've believed. It's though the bottom had dropped out of their universe. Now, for the Christian, this is not so. We are deeply shocked and grieved as anyone else, not astonished, for we are accustomed to the idea that there is a deep interior dislocation in the center of human personality. The delusion of the mechanical perfectibility of mankind through a combined process of scientific knowledge and unconscious evolution has been responsible for a great deal of heartbreak. At bottom, it's far more pessimistic than Christian pessimism because as science and progress break down, there is nothing to fall back upon. Humanism is self-contained. It provides for you no resources outside of yourself. You're deceived. You're in a lot of trouble. Look out. Now, the solution. The problem is sin. And if you don't see that you are a sinner, you may think that you're a Christian and not be. And here's why. Why? Here's why. Because I've talked to many people, especially Manhattan, who come to church, but they say, you know, I love Christianity. I think of myself as a Christian. I go to church, but I don't believe in those old miracles. I don't believe that Jesus was the pre-existence son of God, born of a virgin. I don't believe in the physical resurrection. I don't believe in the blood atonement. I don't believe in those things. I think of Christianity this way. I think of Christ as being a wonderful moral teacher who taught us to love one another, and I get the like that when I go to church. That's how I like to think of Christianity. And John says, the reason if you have a problem with those doctrines, it's because you don't know you're a sinner. If you're able to say that, and I know there's people continually that say that, and I hope there's some of you here that are saying that. If you say, I can't believe in the physical resurrection, the blood atonement, the incarnation, these old miraculous superstitious things, I can't believe in that. I believe in Christianity as a wonderful moral code. The reason you believe that is because you don't know you're a sinner. If you knew you were a sinner, you wouldn't be creeped out by these ideas. You would be thrilled because you would know that nothing less than the death and the resurrection of the incarnate son of God could save you. You would know that nothing less could save you. And the reason that you're not thrilled, the reason you're creeped out, all starts here. You're under the delusion that Dorothy Sayers talked about. You're under the delusion that C.E.M. Joe talked about. You're in for tremendous trouble. You will not be able to understand what goes on in your life. You will not be able to understand how people treat you. You will not be able to understand yourself. And you will not be able to understand everything the Bible says about Jesus and who he was and what he did. You will, if I may be so respectful to say it in a respectful way, but I still have to say it, you're calling God a liar. If you don't say you're a sinner, you won't understand anything else that he tells you about Jesus. That's the problem. Sin, do you see the problem? If you don't see the problem, you won't love the solution. And here's is the solution. It starts in chapter 1, verse 2. My dear children, pardon me, chapter 2, verse 1. My dear children, I write this to you so that you will not sin, but if anybody does sin, we have one who speaks to the Father in our defense, Jesus Christ, the righteous one. He is the atoning sacrifice for our sins. All right, let's put it this way. We're going to look at this now, we don't have to cover it all. This is the secret. We have an advocate. Anybody around here? I see a few of you. Anybody here? The very first time we had an experimental service in this city, first time Redeemer even did anything publicly. It was the first week of April 1989 in the evening, and this was what I preached on. Jesus, our advocate. Because if I had to die tomorrow, and this was the only sermon I could preach before I died. I'd preach on this theme anyway. This is the secret. This is the secret to life. If you understand this, this is the solution to the problem of sin, the solution to the problem that we all have. We have an advocate with the Father. Now let me just briefly outline, I can't tonight work out all the implications of how this affects us. That's next week. But let me outline what John tells us about this wonderful secret, to whom it comes, through whom it comes, and how it comes. To whom, through whom, and how. To whom it comes. My dear children, I write this to you so that you will not sin. But if anyone does sin, we have one who speaks. Now, this is, I'm going to just rejoice in Christianity here for a second. John is telling us this salute, this wonderful thing, this Jesus the advocate, the only people who can have it are people who have such a sense of moral failure that they do not believe they can go to God on their own. It says here, my dear children, I write this to you so you will not sin. But now, what is he envisioning? He's envisioning you having sinned and having sinned, you feel like I can't go speak to God. I need somebody else to. This is the only requirement for the great salvation. This is it. The only requirement is that you have to sense that you are such a moral failure that you can't, you're not worthy of going to God and you can't speak to him on your own. If you believe you can just go into God and ask for forgiveness, you can't be saved. Unless you see yourself as a moral failure, John says, you can't have this great secret. Now, the reason I want to rejoice, what a gospel, what a faith. You know what the other faiths say? In the last month, I've had a chance to talk to some very ardent members of other religions, and they say, you know, the trouble with you Christians is that you believe you've got to come through Jesus, but we believe that all good people everywhere can come to God. You're too exclusive. Really? Other religions then say the good people can go in, but the bad people are left out. But Christianity says only this, the humble people can go in and only the proud are left out. Now, which is more exclusive? And you think about this for a second. Here's the only thing that's required to get into the Holy of Holies. This is the only is required to get in this great secret. You have to admit you're a moral failure. Nobody ever put it better than John Gerstner. He put it this way. He says, the way to God is wide open now because of Jesus. There is nothing standing between the sinner and God. There is nothing to hinder. Nothing can hold you back except your good works. Now listen, nothing can keep you from Christ, but the delusion that you have any good works and they can satisfy God. All you need is need. All you need is nothing. But alas, sinners cannot part with their virtues. They have none that are not imaginary, but they're real to them. So grace becomes unreal. The real grace of God they spurn in order to hold on to the illusory virtues of their own. Their eyes are fixed on a mirage, but they will not drink real water. They die of thirst with water all around. All you need is need. The only people who get the advocate are people who say, I have sinned and I can't go in. I have sinned and I'm not worthy to go in. Without that sense of unworthiness, you're lost. It's not the good people that go in. What about us bad people? You know the reason that's not unfair? Because whether you're good or bad has an awful lot to do with your condition, does it not? How you were raised, how you were treated, your chances, your choices. Not everybody came from a good family. Not everybody was raised in Aussie and Harriet land. had all that. It's very easy to be a bad person. And Christianity says, that's not the main point. All you need is need. All you need is nothing. To whom does this secret come? To those who know their moral failures. Number two, through whom does it come? The one. See, it says, if anybody does sin, we have one who speaks to the Father in our defense. We have one. You'll never, ever see anywhere in the Bible, it said, if you sin, just go to God and ask forgiveness. Now, modern people don't like this. They say, listen, God would forgive. You just have to go in. You never see the Bible ever saying, just go to God and ask for forgiveness and he'll forgive you. Never. Do you realize the entire Old Testament, what it's all about? Now, that's a hard question. isn't it? It's a pretty long thing. But there's all these rituals, and there's all these sacrifices, and there's all the washings, and there's all the food, the clean and the unclean. And it's unbelievably difficult to understand it. I'll tell you what it's all about. The whole Old Testament is there. All that was there to show the people that God cannot just forgive sin by just forgiving it. That sin and the forgiveness of sins, I say it again with reverence, is the only problem that God Almighty has ever faced. Nothing else is a problem for him. You go back to Genesis 3, and you'll see as soon as Adam and Eve sinned, look at the compassion. He didn't wipe them out. He clothed them, and he said, I want to do something about your condition. Why didn't he just Forgive them. He couldn't. If you don't understand that, you're never gonna be thrilled and changed by the knowledge of the advocate. He couldn't. Well, you say, how could that be? The whole Old Testament is all about the fact that God can't just forgive sins. There's gotta be sacrifice. There's gotta be something. There's gotta be payment. Well, you say, how could that be? I'm a father, you know? When your little son sins against you, don't you just say, if he says sorry, don't you say fine? Why would God be any different? Because God's not just a father. God is also a king, a judge. Why is it that nowhere in the state of New York or nowhere in this country and nowhere really in the civilized world can a judge ever sit and preside over a trial in which her son would be the defendant? Why would that never be allowed? Why would you never allow a judge, if her son was on trial somewhere, for that judge to be the presiding judge? Why not? Because justice has to be blind. If somebody wronged you, robbed you, ruined your life, you went to court and it turned out that the judge was the mother, let's say, of the defendant. And the judge looked at the son and said, son, I know you meant well. I know you're sorry. Case dismissed. you'd get up and say, we cannot have a country if this happens. We can't have a social order if this happens. Justice has got to be blind. We know that justice cannot be overcome by love. Love cannot just set justice aside. We can't even have a society. So how much less can we have a universe if we let God in his love set aside justice? How could that be? It couldn't be. How dare you want a God who is less just than the kind of judge that you would demand to have in your neighborhood? Nobody anywhere in the Bible just goes in and asks for forgiveness. Somebody's got to pay. Somebody's got to do something. It has to be through Jesus. If you don't understand that, you don't understand Christianity either. Now, lastly, how does it come? And here's the wonder, and this is what we can explore in much more detail next time. Jesus Christ is our advocate. That means he is like your defense attorney. He stands before the Father. And we're told, you know, the defense attorney represents you. It doesn't say that this defense attorney is Jesus Christ the merciful. It says this is Jesus Christ the righteous. Why? Because he is not up there saying to God, oh Lord God,

be merciful to this one. Tim Keller has done it again. He's sinned again. After all the promises, after all the problems, he's sinned again. But please let him off once more. Be merciful for my sake. Is that what Jesus is doing? It doesn't say. Jesus is the persuasive. It says, Jesus the righteous, the atoning sacrifice, and this is what he's doing. Jesus Christ is up there like any really good lawyer. He's got a case, and he is saying to the Father, Father, your law demands death in payment for the sins of my client. The death has been died. the punishment has been taken. It would be unjust, therefore, for you to take two payments for these sins because I've already paid for them. Therefore, my father, it would be unjust for you to not forgive my sister or my brother. And therefore, he is not up there demanding mercy. My friends, he's demanding justice. Justice. There is nothing more infallible than justice. Jesus Christ's death has made God's justice drive him to accept us and love us. Not that he's unwilling. Because after all, he's the one who put forth Jesus Christ. But rather, this has enabled God to be both just and justifier of those who believe. The day that I realized that Jesus is not up there asking for mercy for you and me, but for justice, was the day I stopped sweating. And it changes the way in which you think about yourself. It changes the way in which you deal with criticism. Jesus is not demanding or asking for mercy. He's demanding justice. And as a result, it's the justice of God now that is on our side. Justice! And as a result, when that voice comes to you and says, you call yourself a Christian, how dare you go into the Father? What if everybody knew what you've done? What do you say? I just had a bad week? That voice will cut you to ribbons with that one. No, what you say is, well may the accuser roar of sins that I have done. I know them all and thousands more. Jehovah knoweth none. Let's pray. Our Father, we ask that you would help us to have fellowship with you because we see that we're sinners, but that we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus the righteous. Everybody in this room is in a different condition, and therefore everybody in this room will need you to apply this truth to them ways do so, for we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.
