We're going to be talking about a fairly controversial issue tonight, and I won't be around for the Q&A. And the reason I won't be around, though, Drew Field, a pastor, will be taking it, is because I have to go to Florida to do a memorial service for my brother who died a couple weeks ago. And I'm dressed for Florida, actually. Actually, from what I can tell from the news, I'm not really dressed coolly enough, but it's better. Listen, those of you who expressed condolences the last couple weeks, thank you. my younger brother who just died was embrace Christ near the end of his life and that's the main consolation but I appreciate yours as well okay but it's also nice to be relaxed on a Sunday night now we're taking to look at a very oh gee I'm sorry I know I just ruined your festive mood but listen that when a Christian dies like for example Kathy says there's a lot of celebration about this for example my brother immediately becomes the number one theologian in the family he just leapfrogged past me and uh there's there's plenty to uh celebrate so don't be somber uh with that little announcement let's uh whoa that um in the beginning

god created shouldn't we turn this down a little bit thank you let's take a look at the passage of the whole passage because what we're going to do this summer in the evening services is the pastoral staff as a team, as we often do, we're going to take hold of one particular piece of the Bible and go through it. And we're choosing the first 11 chapters of Genesis. Now, Genesis is definitely the most pregnant of all the parts of the Bible. There is so much in it. And we're going to take a look at Genesis 1. And so that we really do get through, we only have 12, 13 weeks in the summer. In order to get through Genesis 1 to 11, we have to take big sections. And I'm not going to read you the whole section because this isn't tremendously familiar. Let me just read you the first couple of verses, and then we will, as I go over this, the passage and the message of the passage, I'll refer and dip in and read sections. But of course, we read in Genesis 1, verse 1, in the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. Now, the earth formless and empty. Darkness was over the surface of the deep, and the Spirit of God was hovering over the waters. And God said, let there be light, and there was light. God saw that the light was good, and he separated the light from the darkness. God called the light day, and the darkness he called night. And there was evening, and there was morning the first day. And God said, let there be an expanse between the waters to separate water from water. So God made the expanse and separated the expanse from the water above it, and it was so. God called the expanse in the sky. There was evening and there was morning the second day. And God said, let the water under the sky be gathered to one place and let the dry ground appear, and it was so. God called the dry ground land and gathered waters he called sea, and God saw that it was good. Let's end our reading right there. Now, as soon as we read Genesis 1, we immediately, in our minds, right away say, what has this got to do with evolution? And it's unfortunate we live in a time of history in which we have to deal with that because I don't think this is about that. Yet we, unfortunately, I'm going to have to take about half of our time at least addressing that. So we're going to do what we're going to do under two headings the first setting is Does Genesis one is it teaching the method or the meaning of creation the teaching how God does it did it or why? Is Genesis one primarily teaching the method of the meaning and then secondly What's the meaning? What is the text telling us about creation now? We have to take the first step first And here's what we have to do it got to answer questions and see the big issue for people today as they read this though I don't think it's the main point at all of the passage, is this ruling in or ruling out evolution? And I don't think that it is ruling it in or ruling it out exactly, because I think the question that comes up right away is, is this history, like the Gospels, telling us how God created the world, or is this poetry, like the Psalms, telling us why? Is it history like the gospel is telling us how, or is it poetry like the psalm is telling us why? That's not an easy question to answer. Now you see in the Bible generally when you, history and poetry are signaled. Now it's not always that easy to tell. You know for example, I mean even when you, when I'm just making a statement, for example, if I say Tom threw a disc, does this mean Tom has a back problem, or does it mean that he whipped me a CD? It depends. We don't know if he literally threw you a disc or whether he figuratively threw a disc. Now, the same thing happens when it comes to history and poetry. There's signals, usually. Like, for example, Luke begins and says, Theophilus is the person that Luke is writing to. There's an account here I want to give you of what Jesus said and did, and I've talked to eyewitnesses, and I want to give you an orderly account. That's history. on the other hand in Psalms you've got all sorts of ways of signaling it's poetry in English of course rhyme is one approach but then there's you have a versification of various ways and in Hebrew you have parallelism and repetition and couplets there's all sorts of ways to signal it's poetry and occasionally you have history and poetry kind of intertwine so for example in If you go to the book of Judges, Judges chapter 4, you read Deborah and Barak about their great battle with the Syrian army. And in chapter 4, we're told what happened. It's clearly history. Then suddenly in chapter 5, it says, And Deborah sang this song. And when she begins to sing, she sings about this battle, and it sure doesn't sound the same way. At one point, for example, she says, the stars came out of their courses and fought against the Syrians. Now, when you read Judges 5 and you quote that, does that mean the Bible's teaching that the stars actually came out of their orbits and came down and fought against the Syrian army? And of course you say, well, no, because if you stand back and look at the context, you see that when it says, and Deborah sang this song, it's very clear that this is a theological poem. This is a poetry. Now, when you get to the book of Genesis, Genesis 1 and 2, especially as you take a look at the two, is this poetry or is this history? And oh my goodness, this is such a hot issue and a hot topic, and I don't think I'm going to, I'm not going to put any water on the fire, so I hope, but I hope I can bring, I may not get rid of the heat, but I hope I can bring in some light. How do you interpret Genesis 1? Well, here's how you go. If you look back, you will see there's always been difference of opinion. Before this issue was ever there, before anybody felt that there was some scientific reason why Genesis 1 was problematic and so on, there's always been differences of opinion. If you go way back, you had plenty of people that said, oh, Genesis 1 is teaching that the world was created in six 24-hour days, six 24-hour periods, it's teaching that the world was created in a space of 144 hours, and then God rested, it. But there were a lot of other people, and I'll tell you who they were, Augustine, Anselm, Aquinas, a fairly heavy company, all of whom said these might be God's work days, and they really may not have much to do, or we don't know exactly how much they have to do with our kind of time in history. Throughout history, there have been people, you know, some of you actually may have an old Bible, perhaps, that has Archbishop Usher. Archbishop Usher was, I guess, an Anglican bishop, 1700s, who counted back from, you know, assuming Jesus was born at a certain time in history, counted back through the genealogies of the Bible, and especially through Genesis, and figured out that the world was created 5,000, 6,000 years before Christ, making it 7,000, 8,000 years old. And some of you might actually have Archbishops, I have a Bible still at home that has his dates at the bottom of the page. And the trouble is that centuries ago, some people look at it that way, but for centuries people have noticed that the genealogies very often are not complete. When it says so and so begat so and so, the word begat doesn't mean was the father of, but it means was the ancestor of. And so you have a place like, if any of you are taking notes, you just might want to write. For example, in Matthew 1, verse 8, it says, is Joram begat Uzziah. But in 1 Kings 8, pardon me, 2 Kings 8, 11 and 14, you'll see that Uzziah was the great-great-grandson of Joram. And so we know when, see, people for centuries have known that because the genealogies don't have to be complete, when it says so-and-so begat so-and-so, that doesn't mean that so-and-so was the father of so-and-so. That means we have no idea how old the earth is. So there's always been difference of opinion about whether or not you could say The earth was created just a few thousand years ago. Some people have taught that, and it happened in six days, and many others have said no. Now, why? When this wasn't an issue, when evolution was an issue, why? It's because of the text. And here's the problem. If you look at Genesis 1 and Genesis 2, you see a couple of major problems. Now, we don't have Genesis 2 in front of us, but let me just read you one verse out of Genesis 2 to show you the problem. You've got a very interesting place, especially in Genesis 2, verse 5, and this is what we read. When the Lord God made the earth and heaven, no shrub of the field had yet appeared on the earth, and no plant of the field had yet sprung up because, very important word, because the Lord God had not sent rain yet upon the earth, and there was no man to work the ground. Hm? No shrub of the field appeared and no plant of the field has sprung up because the Lord God had not sent rain on the earth and there was no man to work the ground. In other words, it's saying in chapter 2 verse 5, there was no wild vegetation because there was no precipitation cycle yet. And it says there was no cultivated precipitation because there was no human beings. And then verse 6 says, but a mist began to go up. That's the first thing that was lacking. And then the Lord God formed the man from the dust of the ground second thing. Now what, you say, what's the difference this would make? Well, it's a big difference. Big problem. The big problem is, look, in Genesis 1, it tells us you had vegetation, but the sun and the moon weren't created yet. There was no precipitation cycle. You had the vegetation first, and even though there's no precipitation or rain. And you say, well, wait a minute. And then, for example, in verse 1, we're told we have light and darkness. But it's not until day four that we have the source of any light. You have light, but you don't have sun or stars. You say, well, so what? So what? God can do it any way he wants. Yes, of course God can do it any way he wants, but Genesis 2 says God did not just do it any way he wanted. Genesis 2 uses that little word. It's an incredibly important word in understanding these passages because God, he says, was not a blade of grass on the world why because there was no evaporation precipitation cycle yet so well god can bring up vegetation without rain see if the sun didn't happen to the fourth day then there was no evaporation precipitation cycle yet and he said and of course in chapter one you have vegetation then precipitation but in chapter two you have no vegetation until there is precipitation you say well god can do it any way he wants yeah i know, but it says in chapter 2, because, that word because means that God used the natural order. Of course, God didn't have to use the natural order, but Genesis 2 says he did, but Genesis 1 says he didn't. And there's more problems than that, but I don't have time. Genesis 1 and Genesis 2 are very different. They essentially contradict each other, and that's the problem. And that's the reason why there's been differences of opinion about this too, about Genesis 1 way long before there was evolution. Now, before I unravel this thing, I've got to tell you something quick, because I know people are going to say, well, what do you think? And see, the one thing you must not do, but we do, if you say, I believe in evolution, therefore I have to interpret Genesis 1 this way. Or if you say, I think evolution is a godless, terrible theory, and therefore I have to do Genesis 1 this way. that is not the way to come to a text you mustn't do that those of you who say I believe those of you who say we can't take Genesis 1 literally because now we know oh now we know ism now look now we know ism do you know back before 1915 uh it was the consensus of the sciences in the west that some races were superior to other races. Some races were more prone to crime than other races. Some races were more intelligent than other races. And we have backed away totally from that since 1915 because of what happened in the world wars. But in 1915, if you came to the Bible and saw what the Bible says, essentially that is all the races descended from Adam and therefore they're all equal. Somebody said, ah yes, well that's what the Bible says, but now we know. Listen, now, there is no ultimate now. now, five, fifty years from now, will be obsolete. And you must not say, well, we know now. What we know now, we might not know later. And so you can't come to the Bible like that. On the other hand, there's an awful lot of people who say, because we've got to stop the evolutionists, we mustn't back off of Genesis 1. We must take it literally. That is not how you decide these things. That's eisegesis, not exegesis. Exegesis is the Greek word to find the meaning, to draw the meaning out. But eisegesis is the Greek word that means to put the meaning in. I know already what it's got to mean. And in it goes. No, we mustn't do either of those. If you would like to know my view on things, I'm very, very skeptical about the theory of evolution as a macro theory, as a theory that says everything evolved from the tiniest light forms. On the other hand, I am very concerned about creation science, which says the earth is 8,000 years old, and anybody who doesn't believe in 624-hour day creation is undermining the Bible. I'm very concerned about both of those for reasons I don't think I probably need to go into. If you are absolutely sure that evolution is a given, In 150 years, there is serious questioning of the theory of evolution in both the scientific and philosophical circles at the highest levels. I'm not just talking about people writing kind of magazines, popular magazines. I mean at the highest level. There is serious questioning going on. Do not hitch your understanding of the Bible or of theology to that. On the other hand, one of the problems with Creation Science is that there's a great tendency for Creation Science people to ignore the fact that before evolution ever came along, people had trouble interpreting this literally. This text doesn't tell you, Genesis 1, I'm going to show you, does not tell you how it happened. It doesn't tell you how long ago it happened. It doesn't really tell you how God did it. That's not his purpose. In fact, if you read the Bible, you'll see that the Bible never, never, never gives you everything you need to know about any scientific or any historical issue. Everything the Bible says is scientifically true and historically true. There is nothing in the Bible that isn't true. But you see, when you go to the Gospels and you say, ah, this is going to tell me the biography of Jesus, it doesn't. What kind of biography would give you half of the pages on the last week of man's life? The Bible gives you very selectively what you need to know to understand the gospel, what you need to know to heal your relationship with God, what you need to know. Whether it gives you the history of Israel, whether it gives you the account of creation, whether it gives you the biography of Jesus, the Bible is incredibly selective. It's not out to tell you everything you need to know about that subject. It's out to tell you everything you need to know about him and how you can bridge the gap. Now, okay, so how do we understand Genesis 1? There's only four possible views. Once you understand the problem of that seeming contradiction, that apparent contradiction I talked about, view number one says that Genesis 1 is literal narrative history, just like Genesis 2. I just don't say that. I mean, what are you going to do? You're just going to ignore the real problems? You're going to ignore the problems you can't. That's view one. It just ignores the they're both history. View two is the very, very typical, what you might call the mainline church, the liberal seminary approach. An awful lot, especially of Protestants, but many Catholics too, teach that Genesis 1 and 2 are two contradictory accounts of creation that some editors slapped together. They were written by two different authors, and of course they contradict, but they were just slapped together. And of course the Bible contradicts itself. I mean, that's just what it is. It's a very interesting book, and it's not infallible, and it's not inerrant, and that's the second view. That's the way to get away from that. Well, of course, some of you know, huge problems are created with that view, that the Bible contradicts itself. Huge problems. It, first of all, violates, anybody who says, I follow Jesus, but you refuse to follow his view of Scripture, is living in a tremendous contradiction right there. Jesus' view of Scripture is, what does he say? The Scripture cannot be broken. Not a jot or tittle will pass away till all is fulfilled. Jesus' view of the Bible was very high. can't just do that. But not only that, it's not just that view number two that says these are two different contradictory approaches. Not only does that actually denigrate the high view of the scripture that Jesus has, but it basically says all the original readers of this book and the editor was an idiot. They were all jerks because they just slapped two contradictory views, things together, and they said this is fine. I mean, it really not only defies the Jesus view of the Bible, it defies common sense. Number three, the third approach is to say, ah, well, you know, I believe Genesis 1 is not talking about literal days. I believe these are long successive ages. I believe these are long periods of time. Now, with all due respect, if that's your view, I think that's really the worst of all the views, because remember, the problem between Genesis 1 and 2 is not the length of the days, it's the order. It's the order. It doesn't help I mean you're talking about long period of time which you have light and darkness ages and ages light and darkness And you don't have any sun you don't have any moon you have Vegetation you have no rain for how long The long period of time Well in other words it doesn't really get out of the way I'm afraid of anything you number three is a way people have used to try to accommodate Genesis one with evolution so we get rid of the idea this is literal history and you get rid of the idea that this is contradictory, and we get rid of the idea that these are day-long ages, and what do we have? Well, the fourth way is this. You take a look, and first of all, you notice two things about, if you really look at it in the context of the scripture. Number one, the Hebrew, you can even see it. Can't you see it even in the English? It has all the marks of poetry, all the parallelisms, all the repetitions. You can even see it in the English. Very different than Genesis 2. Read Genesis 2. You don't have all the repetition, this and that, and evening in the morning with more than the second day and back and forth. It's strophic. You can see it in Hebrew, but you can even see it in English. But not only that. In Exodus 14 and 15, we have not one but two accounts of the great crossing of the Red Sea, the great liberation. We have a narrative, historical account of literally what happened in Genesis 14, pardon me, Exodus 14, and then in Exodus 15, we have Miriam's song in which she gets very poetic Just like in Judges 4 and 5, we have a literal historical narrative of how the battle went. And then in Judges 5, we have Deborah's song about it. Well, we have the same thing here. In fact, if you buy the idea these are two contradictory authors slapped together, you miss the beauty of it. Nobody believes, by the way, nobody believes that Exodus 14 and 15 are written by two different people, or Judges 4 and 5 are written by two different people, then why should Genesis 1 and 2 be written by two different people? And what you have when you begin to see it is, get this, this is not telling us how, but what God did and why. Notice carefully what it's telling us. Now, we're going to get into this. I'm going to give you a little list because, unfortunately, you know, we had to take the time on the evolution thing, and now I'm going to make this list a little more cursory that I like to make it. But look, on day one, two, and three, God is creating realms. And on days four, five, and six, we see in perfect parallelism, he creates rulers for the realms. On day one, he creates what? The realm of light and darkness. And look down on day four, it says, God made two great lights, verse 16, the greater light to govern, to rule, to rule the day and the lessor light to govern the night and he made the stars on the second day he creates two more realms the realm of what the water and the sky and on the fifth day he creates two sets of rulers again in the sense he creates the fish and he creates the fowl and on the sixth day it creates apartment on the third day he creates the realm the realm of land and on the day he creates the rulers of the realm, first animals, but then finally us. And the seventh day he sits down. What we're being told here is that there is a kingly structure to creation. It is realms and rulers over the realms and rulers over the rulers over the realms. And finally, God is Lord of lords and God of gods. That's what it's telling us. Now, Let's draw out the implications. But you see, that's what it's telling us. In fact, because we have spent so much time, look, this very sermon is an example of the problem of this passage in the life of the church today. I just took 18, 20 minutes trying to pull apart, and probably some of you are kind of confused or even angry, maybe, I think, when that's not what this thing is about at all. It's not about evolution. It's not about that at all. Let me tell you what it's about. give you three things it tells us about creation and seven things about us. Seven things. Oh my gosh, you said it's a three-hour sermon. No, I have a plane to catch, all right? The three things it tells us about creation and the seven things about us. The three things, what? Number one, it tells us about the hierarchy of things. Secondly, it tells us about the unity of things. And lastly, the goodness of things. First of all, the hierarchy. You know what the main thing this is about? is a polemic against idolatry. When you read this text and you write away saying, what's this got to do with evolution? You are forgetting the first interpretive principle, and that is, what did the original author, what was that author trying to say to the original audience? And that's the way you get to know what the author's message is and what he means and what it would mean to us. His message was, don't worship anything but God. You see, people obeyed the sun and the moon. They worship the sun and the moon. They worship the stars back then. They worship created things. And what's fascinating about chapter one is God on the one hand is saying, on the one hand, these are rulers. There is a greatness about the sun and the moon. There's a greatness about the animals. There's a greatness about us. There's a greatness about human relationships. They are so great that they're called kings. They're ruling in the realms. But make sure you realize supreme king. And therefore, what this is, is this is a complete polemic against idolatry. And if I can just pull it home a little bit for just a second. We spent some time here in our look at Galatians during the spring on this. But look, you realize what this means? It means, first of all, the world is full of rulers. And if you don't make God the supreme ruler of your life, you will have some other created thing as your ruler. In fact, what's very interesting is when you contrast chapter one with chapter three of Genesis, you'll see something very interesting. Humanity is created last before God sits down to rest. In other words, you have the sun and the moon are ruling over this realm, and then you see every being that comes along is higher than the one before. And therefore, humanity was supposed to rule over everything, which is what you read down in chapter 1, you see, verse 26. And God says, let us make man in our own image. So God created man in his own image. In verse 28, God said to them, be fruitful and increase in the number, fill the earth and subdue it. Rule over the fish, over the birds, over the living creatures. Rule over the rulers. But now listen. If God is first in your life, you will be completely ruling over everything else. How many times have we talked about this? But you see it comes up here in Genesis 1. If God is first in your life, if God is the source of all your security, wisdom, and power, then nothing else will enslave you. You won't care what people think. It won't be all that awful that nobody's dating you. It won't be the end of the world that your career hasn't taken off. It won't be the end of the world that you don't have a lot of money. But if God's not number one in your life and if he's not the source of your value, your worth, your security, your power, something else will roll over you. Something else. It will be romance or it will be family or it will be career or it will be money. You will hate yourself if you don't have them. You'll be, you know, your self-esteem will be in the toilet. Life will be meaningless. It will be ashes. What does that mean? It means you've gone down into the first day. You belong in the sixth day. You belong under God and under nothing else. But if you don't put yourself under God, you'll be under everything else. The way God put it in Genesis 1, it was God over us over nature. But unless, if you go to Genesis 3, when you see what happened, when we decided to try to master God, everything fell apart. And now it's God over nature over us. you are restored back into Genesis 1 to the degree that you put God first. This is against idolatry, the hierarchy of things. Secondly, it is against, pardon me, I said it again, it is a hierarchy of things. Secondly, not against, well, it is, it teaches us the unity of things. Now, the unity of things means this. God creates everything. We are not told here world and in so many other creation myths and so many other creation accounts I'm not calling this a myth by the way all the other creation accounts in other understanding of the origins you get from other religions the spirit world is good and the physical world is kind of bad this is the only religion this is the only book in which it opens in the first scene God has dirt under his fingernails God's hands are in the dirt God's in the dust God's making things God's forming things. And what does that mean? It means unity of the spiritual and the material. This is the reason why, if you want to know what Easter means, Easter simply means Genesis 1 was right. Easter means that salvation is not from the physical. Somehow we'll get away from the physical. Finally the spiritual will be liberated from the physical. But no. Easter means that God wants to redeem both the physical and the spiritual. If anything, he wants to put them finally together. Genesis 1 shows that everything was created by God. Everything. He is the Lord of all things. There was nothing before. And therefore, we have a unity. Now, Christians don't believe that. They don't believe that. Christians think that physical sins, like sex and drunkenness, is much, much worse than greed or pride or spitefulness or gossip. In other words, we think physical sins are bad, but these spiritual sins aren't so bad. We don't believe in the unity. Christianity. Christians believe that there are evil places. You don't want to go to those places. Those are evil places. In other words, there's some places that are good, some places are bad. There's a philosophical word for that. It's called dualism. Unfortunately, there's evil in you. Worldliness has to do with your thinking. Worldliness has to do with your values. Worldliness has to do with your heart. It doesn't have to do with certain places that are bad? Do you believe in the unity of all things? And then thirdly, which is very, very closely related, do you believe in the goodness of all things? God made everything, and he's continually saying what? Over and over and over again, he's continually saying, it's good. Now, you know what that means? It amazes me that sometimes the people who are the most adamant, they're pushing, pushing creation in the classroom are the ones who forget something. And that is, Genesis 1 means God's not just interested in religion. God's interested in art. God's interested in architecture. God's interested in building. God's interested in digging ditches. God's interested in farming. God is interested in agriculture. God's interested in everything because he created everything. Religion is only one part of everything. And as a result, we should be celebrating and involving ourselves

engagement in the world. In other words, we have far, far more in common, you see, with non-Christians because they're made in the image of God, which is not what we're talking about here tonight. That comes later. And because we are a common humanity. We have a tremendous amount in common with them. We're not supposed to be pulling our skirts in. We're not supposed to be staying away from everybody. You see. Now, this leads, those three principles, that there's a hierarchy to things and that there's a unity to things and there's a goodness to things, to what does this tell us about us? Genesis 1 tells us these things. I know, seven things? Okay, I'm going to be fast. Look, we're workers, thinkers, miners, rebuilders, enjoyers, resters, and relaxers. Number one. Didn't you get that? I'm not going to repeat it. No, I am. Number one, workers. God's hands in the dirt mean no work is menial. of ancient times and the yuppies of the present time have said that there's menial labor, grunt work, back work, blue collar people. And then there's the philosophers. Then there's the noble. Then there's the information workers. This is not a hierarchy. There is a hierarchy to things but there's not a hierarchy to work. Plain old fashioned hard work, physical work, has been forever given by Genesis 1. No other religion gives it this kind of dignity. Second, number two, but having said that, creation also means, if anything, we're not just workers, we're thinkers. And here's what I mean by that. Here's a little quote by Mark Knoll. He says, for a Christian, the mind is incredibly important because God is important. Who, after all, listen carefully, who, after all, made the world of nature, and then made possible the development of the sciences, through which we find out more about nature? Who formed the universe of human interactions, and so provided the raw materials for all politics, economics, sociology, and history? Who is the source of harmony, form, and narrative pattern, and so lies behind all artistic and literary possibilities? Who created the human mind, in such a way that it could grasp the endless realities of nature of human interactions of beauty and so made possible the theories of such matters by philosophers and psychologists. Who moment by moment sustains the natural world, the world of human interactions, and the harmonies of existence? Who maintains moment by moment the connections between what is in our mind and what is in the world beyond our minds? The answer in every case is the same. God did it. God does it. Now what Marcus Manola is trying to say is this. If God created things, then the only way to understand God is to understand things. And that means you've got to think, and you've got to study, and you've got to look. Genesis 1, see on the one hand, Genesis 1, don't be disappointed. Genesis 1 doesn't give me a model, a scientific model for how creation happened, but what it does, it gives us the presuppositions on which all scientific reasoning is based. Science absolutely always presupposes induction, which

will be like the past. That if water boils today at 212 degrees, it will boil tomorrow at 212 degrees and so forth. How can it know that? Because there's an orderliness to creation. Oh, what is the basis for that? David Hume, one of the great skeptics in the history, great philosopher and skeptic in the 18th century, admitted that if there is no God, there's no basis for the principle of induction. And yet all reasoning, investigation is completely based on it. Why should the future be like the past? You say, well, it always has been, but that's to assume the thing you're trying to prove. You can't do that. And therefore, you see, Christians are thinkers. Creation tells us we can think, we can study. Some people have made a mighty, mighty good point to say that science grew out of the West. It didn't grow out of places that didn't believe that there was an order to creation, a rational order. Okay? Workers, thinkers, miners. Now, what miners means is this. If you look carefully, you will see what God does is he creates the world and he spends the last six days or the last five days filling it. And then he tells us, fill it. And what he means is I've put all kinds of potentialities into creation. I've put a tremendous amount of richness into it. When you compose a song, When you put together four notes that have never been put together before into this new melody, everybody goes, wow, what are you doing? Where did that come from? You're pulling out a potential out of creation. God has put enormous richness into creation, and that's what your job is. It's not just to have Bible studies. That's not the only way to serve God. Go out there, not only study, but develop. Mind creation. That's what you're doing when you're using your gifts. See, Genesis preaching and teaching and evangelism and discipling. All vocations are to the glory of God. Number four, rebuilders. Rebuilders means this. Genesis 1 shows that God cares about creation, and therefore Christians can talk about evangelism, the need for evangelism, and the need for rebuilding the social systems of this city so they provide warm homes and safe streets and food and decent education. How can we talk about those two things together? Because there's a unity about you see both Genesis 1 and Easter proves that Christianity is a fighting religion other religions get very indifferent they say well you know life is bad but it's all going to pass away no the Bible says God created matter as well as the Spirit and he's going to redeem matter as well as Spirit and it's not just Christians' job to fight against spiritual sin but physical brokenness you must we must we're not like our master we're not like our creator Have you accepted Jesus Christ in your life as your creator? Or just your Savior? If you're not willing to deal with physical brokenness, but you just want help for your problems and emotional needs and forgiveness for your sin, you've accepted him as a Savior, but not as a creator. But I'm sorry, if you say, Come in, Tim, stay out, Keller, I won't know what to do. I'm Tim and Keller. If you say, Come in, Savior, stay out, Creator, he won't know what to do either. Yeah, he does. He's God. He'll teach you something. Fifth, enjoyers. You know what enjoyers means? When God says, it is good. Now listen, this is radical. I only have 60 seconds for this. When God says it is good, does that mean he's morally good? Does that mean it's performing well? The light is good. The sea is good. What does he mean? He means it's beautiful. He means he enjoyed it. meaning of it. And if it's true that God created things just to enjoy them, to look at them and to see the beauty, the world was created for you to go out there and enjoy it. It is the Christian's job to go out there and enjoy it. It's the Christian's job. Why do you think Jesus Christ's first miracle was to throw a party and create wine? Remember that? Why? Because he's the creator as well as the redeemer. Your job is to go out there and listen to great music. Your job is to go out there incredible seashores. Your job is to go out there and eat the best food. Your job is to go out there and enjoy what God has made. It's infinities and it's immensities. That's one of your jobs. You're supposed to enjoy it. Okay? Six, relaxing. The doctrine of Genesis 1 tells us God's in charge of everything, and that means nothing's out of control. You better relax. Everything is needful that he sends, nothing can be needful that he withholds. But lastly, resters. When God sat down to rest, it doesn't say the evening and the morning. Why not? In Hebrews chapter 4, it says, we also have had the gospel preached to us just as they did, but the message they heard was of no value to them because those who heard did not combine it with faith. Now we who have believed enter into God's rest, just as God said. So I declared an oath in my anger, they shall never enter my rest. But his work has been finished since the creation of the world. But there remains then a Sabbath rest for the people of God, for anyone who enters God's rest also rests from his own works, just as God did from his. Do you know what that's saying? Do you know the reason why we can't really enjoy creation, you don't want the reason why you can't just enjoy the people and things around you. If you're trying to earn your own salvation, nothing you do is you never do anything for the joy of it. You do it because it's about you. Musicians, you know this problem. If you know God loves you, absolutely. And why are you getting up there to play? Why are you getting up there to sing? Well, you can actually do it for the joy of it. But if you don't know God loves you, because of you. You want to prove yourself. You want to prove that you have a self. And this is true of everybody's work. Nobody enjoys life unless you have started to rest from your work's righteousness. You will never enjoy the world around you until you rest. Rest from your works until you see that Jesus Christ has done everything you need. There remains a rest for the people of God. When you believe in Christ you rest from your work the way God rested from his. Now do you see this? have you asked Jesus Christ into your life as your creator have you started living like this Christians need this how they do work, think rebuild

relax, enjoy, rest let's pray Father we ask that this very important passage though we have run over it like a helicopter we pray that as we read over this and we meditate on these things these things would sink into us and we would come to see really what a difference it would make if we took it seriously. We do not want just to be people who have our sins forgiven and then we hold on hoping for a little peace and joy in the world. We want to have a whole new way of understanding the world and our work and our lives. We want to rest so much in what Jesus has done for us, that we can enjoy the world, and we can work in the world, and we can work for the joy of what we do, rather than just to prove ourselves. We pray, Father, that this radical doctrine of creation, especially when we see it through the lenses of the gospel, would change the way in which we do everything. We ask that in Jesus' name. Amen.
