Let's turn to John chapter 1, and we're going to be looking, we're going through the Gospel of John, and we're going to look at verses 19, I'm going to read down to verse 31. John chapter 1, verses 19 to 31.

Now this was John's testimony when the Jews of Jerusalem sent priests and Levites to ask him who he was. He did not fail to confess, but confessed freely, I am not the Christ. They asked him, then who are you? Are you Elijah? He said, I am not. Are you the prophet? He answered, no. And finally they said, who are you? Give us an answer to take back to those who sent us. What do you say about yourself? John replied in the words of Isaiah the prophet, I am the voice of one calling in the desert. Make straight the way for the Lord. Now some Pharisees who had been sent questioned him. Why then do you baptize if you are not the Christ, nor Elijah, nor the prophet? I baptize with water, John replied, but among you stands one you do not know. He is the one who comes. He comes after me, the thongs of whose sandals I am not worthy to untie. This all happened at Bethany on the other side of the Jordan where John was baptizing. The next day John saw Jesus coming toward him and said, Look, the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. This is the one I meant when I said a man who comes after me has surpassed me because he was before me. I myself did not know him, but the reason I came baptizing with water was that he might be revealed to Israel. This is God's word.

Now, common wisdom goes like this. Why are so many of the big churches in New York City desolate? Why is it that this was, that Brooklyn was once called the city of churches? Why is it that Christianity seems to be at such a low ebb in the city? And the common wisdom goes like this. Well, you know, there was a, we live in a very, a culture and a society of, which New York is the most intense form. And it's a jaded society. It's a sophisticated society. It's a secular society. And people no longer want to be dictated to. They don't want to be regimented. They want to explore their potential. It's no wonder that most of the churches in the city are virtually empty because Christianity has had its day. It was for a simpler time. When people had a simpler view of life, they didn't understand the complexities of life the way we do. It was for a more regimented, simpler time. And that's the wisdom. But that completely and totally fails to account for why Christianity, as we were talking about last week briefly, why Christianity swept through the Roman Empire and in particular ancient Rome. There was a city far more, jaded, far more sophisticated and violent and hard and individualistic and secular and permissive and pagan than New York City. And the gospel swept through it like lightning. The people were converted faster than they could send them to the lions. And why? All we know is this. Because this proves that real Christianity is not something that people see very often. Because when it is seen, it takes over. It takes over a city like that. You cannot say Christianity was for a simpler time. The early Christians, who were the early Christians? They were slaves. They were prostitutes. They were wealthy nobles. They were world-class scholars. And they were all sitting together in the same place, attracted by the same message. These were not people who were gullible. These were not people who were sheltered from the complexities and the harshness of the life. No way at all. When real Christianity is seen, it just runs through a city like that. Which proves that it's not very simple.

So, can we even beauty, the unique stereotype-breaking attractiveness of the Christians' lives. Now, what I mean by that is that Christians are attractive when they're really Christians, but they're attractive in ways that don't fit the mold. You know, for example, one example I think we've talked about at other times, the Romans were particularly struck by the fact that early Christians were very strong on two traits. One is Christians were morally chaste. They were sexually chaste. That means they had a high commitment to monogamy, to sexual purity and no sex outside marriage, to integrity and commitment in relationships. But on the other hand, the second thing that Romans were amazed at, they were amazed at how Christians were so extravagantly generous with their resources, that they gave to the poor, they gave to each other with an eagerness and a proportion that the Roman world had never seen before. Now, that breaks the mold. That doesn't fit in. I mean, even today, look, what's the left wing? Pick up the Village Voice and you'll see what you have there are people who are very concerned about oppression against the poor, but they laugh at the so-called naivete of monogamy and sexual purity. On the other hand, on the right, very often people on the right wing like to uphold traditional family values, and yet they also, in many cases, bear a lack of concern or even a scorn for the poor. Don't you see? The early Christians were not left or right, not then and not now. There was a uniqueness, there was a stereotype breaking unique attractiveness, and so the first stage is outsiders are attracted, almost like moths to the flame, but then the second stage is once they come in, they see that it really isn't a lifestyle or a code of morals, it's not a social program, and it's not a string of doctrines and philosophies that Christianity is about. They come to see that Christianity is actually a social program, and it's actually about not the attractive lifestyle, but about a person. God, who has become a sacrifice for us, his name is Jesus Christ, and that was the message. And so it usually dawns on people two ways. One is they see a unique inexplicable moral attractiveness in a body of people, and then they're attracted in and they find out that it's not a bunch of creeds, and it's not a social program or a code of morals or even a lifestyle, but it's about Jesus. John the Baptist is a case study of this very thing. John the Baptist had this moral attractiveness. He upset the early religious establishment of the day because he was so incredibly popular. There's nothing that upsets the religious establishment more than somebody getting very popular. And when that happens, people start to look. What is it that's drawing people in to somebody like John the Baptist? What we have in John the Baptist is the unique self-image, the unique identity or self-image that comes to Christians after they're converted. It's a thing that originally creates this unique, morally inexplicable, mold-breaking, stereotype-busting attractiveness that we've already talked about. John the Baptist shows us that he had it, and that's the reason people were attracted like flies to him. What was it? It consists really of two things. A particular view of himself and a particular view of Jesus Christ. And when he puts those two things together, he became an immeasurably bold, fearless human leader. So let's just take a look at... In fact, let me put it in a nutshell. The best thing to do is to put it in a capsule first for you, alright? Here's the whole sermon in a capsule in about two minutes, and then we'll try to break it down a little bit. He had a particular way of seeing himself, and a particular way of seeing himself, and a particular way of seeing Christ. And as a result, he became a bold, immeasurably strong, courageous, fearless person. The way he looked at himself was what you see in verse 27. I am unworthy. Okay? The way he looks at Christ is, Behold the Lamb of God. Now notice, his view of himself is soft, but his view of Jesus Christ is loud. You see, when he comes to himself, he says, I am unworthy. Very matter-of-fact, says it once. But when he gets to Jesus, he's yelling, Behold the Lamb of God, that taketh away the sin of the world. He doesn't call people to look at him at all. He doesn't say, Behold, I am unworthy.

He doesn't call people to look at him, but not only that, he doesn't call himself to look at himself either. Don't you think that's where a lot of us are? Behold, I am unworthy. Don't you think that really is a pretty good way of describing exactly where we are? He doesn't ask people to look at his unworthiness, and he himself doesn't even look at his unworthiness. He just knows it's true. And then he moves on, and he says, But I want you to look at, I want to look at, my Lord, my Savior. Behold the Lamb of God. You see, on the one side, you might put it this way, for every one second that John takes to look at himself, he takes an hour to look at his Savior. And as a result, there's this tremendous strength that comes out of him. You see it in verse 20. It's emphatically said twice. He confessed freely. He did not fail to confess. That means that John the Baptist was a gutsy person. John the Baptist was not afraid. Nothing intimidated him. Because of this unique view of himself. Now, because he saw himself as unworthy, but he didn't look at himself, he turned his eyes away to his master, behold the Lamb of God. Because he saw himself as unworthy, he saw Jesus as the Lamb of God, he developed this kind of character, which we all in this room so desperately want. Now, let's break this down and take a look at these three things. His view of himself, his view of Jesus, and the character that ensues, that flows out of that. Number one, his view of himself. He says, I am unworthy. He doesn't just say that, does he? He says, I am unworthy to untie the thongs of Jesus Christ. Now, he's saying something that's pretty extravagant. There were a lot of laws around that said that only slaves could be required to untie the thong of a sandal. To take somebody's shoes off their sandals, to have to wash feet, smelly, dirty, sweaty feet, was something that was so demeaning that you could not demand, say, a rabbi couldn't demand his disciples did it. It was something that only slaves, could be required to do. And yet, here's John the Baptist saying, I'm below that. What he's saying is, I'm less worthy than a slave. Or, to put it in modern jargon, he says, I'm not even on the scale. I'm not even on the map. Now, that's a pretty strong statement of personal unworthiness, and I think a lot of people would say, that's an unhealthy thing to say. That's a bad thing to say. That's pathological, isn't it? Isn't our main problem a low self-esteem? Isn't our main problem that we despise ourselves? And that we don't see the greatness in us, and we lack confidence? So how in the world, you say, can you hold John the Baptist up as any kind of paragon, any kind of model at all? Here's how.

Because there's two ways you can say, I'm unworthy. There's two different ways you can say it. You can say, I'm unworthy, and mean, I despise and dislike myself. Or, you can say, I'm unworthy, and mean, I am full of self-esteem. I'm freed from, and I forget myself. The one is destructive. The other one is healthy Christian humility. Now, look, just to see how this works. In the very front of your bulletin, on the first page, we have a verse that I know I've studied with people in the evening congregation, but I don't think I've ever studied with you. What we have here in Paul is a remarkable example of the way in which a Christian thinks about himself or herself. And it is a perfect example of what John the Baptist is doing. And if you understand, I am unworthy, coming out of this kind of matrix, this kind of talk, then you'll see that it's a completely different thing than self-hatred and self-loathing. Look, Paul is talking to the Corinthians, and he makes this great statement. He says, I care very little if I am judged by you or any human court. He says, I don't care what you think about me. And then he says, indeed, I care very little if I do not even judge myself. My conscience is clear, but that does not make me innocent. It is the Lord who judges me.

Let's do a little anatomy lesson on this statement. It's amazing. First of all, in the very first clause, Paul is dealing with the inferiority complex. You know what the inferiority complex is? The inferiority complex is a person who looks humble, but actually is crippled with a form of self-centeredness, called self-consciousness.

A person who looks humble, because the person is always saying, Oh, I'm so bad, I'm such a mess, I'm such a failure, you know, nobody likes me, I don't like myself. And he looks very humble, but it's actually a form of self-centeredness called self-consciousness. Well, we call it self-centeredness because that's what it is. The reason you feel so bad about yourself is you're measuring yourself up to people all the time. You're comparing yourself to people all the time. You're unbelievably absorbed on yourself. You're always looking at yourself. In a sense, you're obsessed. You're obsessed with your needs, your problems, whether you're living up or not, what people think about you. Now, a person like that is crippled emotionally and cannot love, really. And, therefore, we have to deal with that. Well, Paul looks like he's done it. Paul's dealt with the inferiority complex in his life. He looks at these Corinthians and he says, I don't care what you think. Now, somebody says, now that's a healthy self-image. Because isn't it true that we should not be enslaved by the opinions of others? Right. Well, how do you get that kind of self-image? Well, let's not ask Paul for a minute. Let's ask this modern wisdom thing that we've been talking about all morning. What's the common modern wisdom on this subject? How do you get a good self-image so that you're not enslaved to what other people think? Well, the answer is pretty simple. What you say is, get in touch with your own standards. Get in touch with your own needs. Find out who you are. Figure out what you think. And get involved in that. You see? That's the reason why, I mean, on just dozens and dozens of situation comedies now, most of which I don't watch, but occasionally, and this is usually what happens, you turn in the end of the situation comedy and there's a kid. And the kid has been trying to accomplish something, you know, win the prize in the science fair or get into a, you know, apply to get into a program or something like that. And he's probably done silly things. He's under pressure, so he's cheated, and then he's been found out and all that. But at the end, you have some father or some mother, some Bill Cosby-ish or looking person or who's the guy who was in Father Knows Best? Robert Young. You know, somebody like that putting a hand on the son and says, son, you know, the problem is, don't do this for your mom. Don't do this for me. Don't do this for your friends. Do it for what? Do it for yourself. And you see, that's supposed to help the person get away from this being, enslaved to the opinions of others. You need to say, I don't care what you think. I know what I want to do. I'm in touch with my feelings. I'm in touch with my needs. I'm in touch with who I am, and I'm going to do it. Thanks, Dad.

Is that what Paul does? Does Paul do that? Does he say, I don't care what you think. I only care what I think? You see, when you say, I only care what I think, you know what you've done? You're doing what Paul refuses to do. And that is to heal an inferiority complex with a superiority complex. To say, alright, I don't care what anybody else thinks. I don't care about my family. I don't care about history. I don't care about the mores of the culture. I don't care what the Bible says. I care about what I think. That cripples you too. That creates a condescension. That creates an arrogance, which probably, deep down underneath, you feel guilty about. It doesn't necessarily help you. Does Paul say, I don't care what you think. I only care what I think? What's really struggling is, it's strange, Paul shatters the common wisdom by going out and saying, I care very little if I'm judged of you or any human court. Indeed, I do not even judge myself. My conscience is clear, but that does not make me innocent. What? He says, I don't care what you think, and I don't even care what I think. Hey, right now my conscience is clear, but in the past, I've done wrong when my conscience was clear. Other times, my conscience has accused me when I didn't do anything wrong. What makes me think that by looking deep inside, I'm going to come up with ultimate wisdom? I've let myself down so many times. I've been wrong so often. Besides that, my standards change. He says, I don't care what you think. I don't care what I think either. And at this point, Paul moves on into a realm that only a Christian can move into. He says, it's the Lord who judges me. He says, I don't care what you think. I don't care what I think. I only care what God and Christ thinks. I look and see, what does God say I should do? I don't care what you think about me. I behold the name of God. I look at my Savior and I see Him saying, if you come to me on the basis of what Jesus Christ has done, you are my child. I welcome you into my family. As many as received Him, who believed on His name, He gave power to become children of God. He's welcomed me in. He loves me and accepts me. He's forgiven and covered all my sins because of what Jesus did. The verdict is in. It's over. I don't have to live up to it anymore. It's God who judges me. Now, at that point, you see there's only three ways in which you can be driven. You can be driven by other people's evaluation of you. You can be driven by your own evaluation of you. Or you can be driven by what God and Christ says about you. And that third thing is something that only Christians can get. So don't you see what's happened to John the Baptist? The reason that John the Baptist can say I'm unworthy and then turn around and spit in the eye of all the high religious establishment. The reason that there is nothing shy or self-conscious about John the Baptist is because he does not have the self-consciousness of the inferiority complex nor the self-confidence of the superiority complex, but he has moved into the blessed realm of self-forgetfulness. He says, I know that I'm unworthy, but I know what God thinks about me, and that's good enough for me. His opinion is the only one that matters, and that means I lay down the melancholy burden. I lay down the melancholy burden of always looking at myself. I give it up. My own opinion. Who cares? So when John the Baptist says I'm unworthy, what he's saying is I'm unworthy of all this attention that I've been paying myself. I'm unworthy of it. I've been trying to be my own God for too long. To achieve, to live up, I lay it down. I'm going to let somebody else do it for me. I'm going to look, I'm going to set my eyes elsewhere. And so he does. And here's where he goes. He says, Behold the Lamb of God. Now, the secret of John's confidence, it's not a self-confidence, the secret of John's boldness, it's not a self-boldness, the secret of it is that he sees Jesus every day, constantly, in the center of his being. He's always beholding Jesus as the Lamb of God. And you can have this same character if you're willing, not just to see Jesus as somebody on a crucifix, like some of you do, a little crucifix in your room all your life, Jesus is some kind of absolute, abstract moral teacher, but you have to behold him as the Lamb of God. Now, what does that mean? It means two things. When we talk about Jesus as the Lamb of God, we're saying he's a substitute, and we're saying he's a voluntary substitute. Look. Listen. It's an old story.

Originally, when you read the Old Testament, when you go way, way back into history, the first time a lamb shows up in one of the Old Testament narratives is when Abraham has been told by God, you have to go and kill your son as a sacrifice for me. Abraham didn't understand that. With heavy heart, he walked up the mountain. And as he's walking up the mountain, there's this incredibly poignant moment when Isaac looks at him and says, Father, what are we doing? He says, behold the wood. He says, behold the fire. But where is the sacrifice? And Abraham looks at Isaac and he says, Son, God will provide a lamb.

Which means, Son, if there's a lamb that's slain, then you don't have to die. If God would provide a lamb to be slain, you don't have to die.

Many hundreds of years later, in Egypt, the children of Israel were in Egypt, and God sent out his angels of fire, the angel of death, into Egypt as a judgment on the wickedness of that culture. And the angel of death was bringing a plague to every home, which was going to strike down and kill the firstborn son in every household. And God said, here's the thing, though. If you kill a lamb, and you smear the door lintels with the blood, my angel of death will pass over. And it's the Jewish feast of Passover. It will pass over and not harm anyone inside. You see, there's the message again. If a lamb can be slain, you won't have to die.

And can you imagine, there's all these little bits and pieces in the Old Testament about this lamb. There's even the place in Isaiah 53 that says, someday someone is going to come, and by his stripes we will be healed, and his iniquity is put on us all. And like a lamb before the shearers, he was dumb and he did not open his mouth. There's all these allusions to the Messiah, all these things, but nobody could put it together. Can you imagine how John the Baptist felt on the day when, by divine revelation, it all came together? And he looked and he suddenly said,

behold, the, the lamb of God, not a lamb of God, that's all we've ever had, is a, the lamb of God. Now I get it, he says. The reason that our firstborn children in Egypt were saved was not because of some furry little cute animals that were slain. It was because God put forth His firstborn to be slain. I get it. I get it. The lamb in place of our firstborn was actually God's firstborn. Behold the lamb of God, behold the lamb of God, it all comes together now, now I get it. The substitute, the one that stands in my place, the one who's done everything I need, he's paid everything I deserved and I owed, everything, he stands in my place. And not only that, he did it voluntarily. See, the reason, you might say, well, why would God call Jesus a lamb? What's the big thing about being a lamb? Aren't there all sorts of other things? Aren't bulls sacrificed and aren't goats sacrificed? Why call a lamb? And here's why. Lambs do not buck their murderers at all. Lambs do not open their mouth. They're dumb before their shearers. They don't bite, they don't scratch, they don't run away. They just lay there. And then you kill them. And you see, the point is that Jesus' death was voluntary. When He was in the Garden of Gethsemane, His disciples were asleep. He knew what was on the way. You know, sometimes you get so busy, you're so busy getting married, for example, you're so busy graduating, you're so busy, sometimes you don't actually sit down and taste what's actually happening. You're so busy. I don't know why that might have been what happened to Jesus. And on that night, just before He was about to be betrayed, He sat there and He thought about and He realized what He was going to go through, what incredible pain He was going to go through when God poured out His wrath on Jesus and Jesus paid everything that we owed. You know? And when He was there, He had every chance to go.

And He could have gotten up and said, Why should I leave my infinite glory and joy to take into my heart this burning agony for these people who can't even stay awake with me in my hour of greatest need, who will never repay me, who show me no gratitude, who didn't ask me to come? Why should I do that? Instead, He got up and He said, Not my will, but thine be done. Father, I'll be a lamb. I'll be a lamb. I will go. It's astonishing. You know what it means? God came to Adam and said, Adam, obey me and you will live. And God came to Jesus and said, Jesus, Son, obey me and I'll crush you to powder.

Give yourself to me and all my wrath will be poured out on you. And Jesus says, I'll be a lamb. Now John the Baptist understood that. And because he understood that, everything was changed in his life. Everything. Because he looks and he says, You know, I'm unworthy, yes. But there's no way that that's going to come between me and God because Jesus has done everything for me. Everything. And He did it voluntarily. And His love for me melts away all the hardness of my heart. Everything in my life that is prone to self-pity and self-consciousness is written away by it. Everything in my heart that's prone to self-confidence and superiority is taken away from it. I don't think of myself anymore. His ego has received an incredible one-two punch. Yes, you are unworthy and I love you completely because of what Jesus has done for me. So shut up, ego. And it goes to sleep. What happens then to John the Baptist is simply this. The character that John the Baptist becomes is one who confesses freely and has not failed to confess, it says in verse 20. This was a fearless person. If you read the whole book, you'll know that John the Baptist was not afraid to go right up to the most... You know, he went up to Herod and he said, Herod, you fox, you sleazeball. He says, you took away your brother's wife and now you're living with her. He told right to his face. He knew what would happen. He was eventually imprisoned and beheaded by Herod. Fearless, a leader of human beings. Why? Because of this unbelievable new self-image he had. Listen, if you have it, have you ever seen it in somebody? Unfortunately, it's still relatively rare. Partly because we don't behold Jesus as the Lamb of God. When you see somebody like this, these are people who are unbelievably approachable. When you get near one of these kinds of folks, you sense that this person who's not going to look down their nose at you no matter what you tell them. You sense intuitively that this person, as confident as they appear on the outside, on the inside, does not believe that he or she is any better than you in any way. A person like this is not only wonderfully approachable but wonderfully resilient. That means you can take criticism. You're not bothered when you're snubbed. Oh yeah, because you see somebody comes to you and snubs you or criticizes you. A person with this kind of self-image, what do you say inside? You sit there and you say, well, they're wrong about this particular thing that they criticize me on. And there's certain injustice and unfairness here. But if you only knew what I really was like, I mean, you know, I mean, gosh, you just accidentally are wrong about this particular criticism. But if you only knew, I've got all kinds of things that are wrong with me, but Jesus knows. He knows a lot more than I know. He knows a lot of them that I still don't have the guts to admit about myself and He's covered them all because He's my Lamb. You can take criticism. You can smile at it. You can say you're right.

A person like this is wonderfully approachable, wonderfully resilient, and of course, wonderfully fearless. Because there's a fearlessness that comes, not from self-consciousness or self-confidence, but from just not thinking about yourself at all. You know, my favorite little proverb, I think it's a C.S. Lewis proverb, but I haven't been able to find it in ten years in anything he wrote, but it goes like this, humility is not thinking more of yourself or less of yourself, it's thinking of yourself less. That's where the courage comes from. That's where the resilience comes from. Now, in conclusion, we all know, don't we, that there's two kinds of people in the room. Luckily, I don't know which is which, actually. Some of you need to take 1 John 1, verse 12 very seriously, where it says, to those who received Him and who believed on His name, He gave power to become sons of God. That means you need to actually cross the line over into faith and make Jesus your Lamb for the first time. Look, Dr. Lloyd-Jones, the great Welsh preacher, used to use this test that is still so helpful. When he was trying to figure out where someone was spiritually, he'd always say, are you a Christian? Are you a Christian right now? And if the person looked up and so often did, say, I'm trying, then Dr. Lloyd-Jones knew that this person knew nothing about what real Christianity was. Because here's a person who's still looking at him or herself instead of at the Lamb. Here's a person saying, behold, I am unworthy. I'm trying, I'm trying, I'm trying. A Christian is somebody who says, of course I'm unworthy. Of course I am. But it's my Lamb. It's my Savior. I transfer all of my trust, all of my confidence is taken from Him, and it's put, from me, and it's put over into Him. I am standing on that now. That's what it means to be a Christian. And for you to be that, for you to make Jesus your Lamb, there's two things you do. One is you have to repent of your self-centeredness. The irony is the only way to get out of a bad self-image is to repent of the self-centeredness and the self-absorption that is the cause of it. Oh, somebody says, it's one more thing for me to feel guilty about. Now I've got to repent that I have a bad self-image. If you feel guilty about that, you still don't get it. You don't get it. To repent of a bad self-image is to finally say, I lay down the whole thing. I give up on the whole thing of trying to live up to a standard or even my own performance standards or other people's standards. I give up the whole thing and I rest in my Lamb. That's what you have to do. And you have to say, behold the Lamb of God that takes away the sins of the world. And Christian friends, here's what I want to say to you. I know you probably feel like I do. There have been times when you got close enough to our Lamb and He filled your heart for a brief period of time and you felt something of this blessed, easy freedom that comes when you can finally put your stupid self down to rest. You know, when you get close enough to Him, it's so wonderful when you can forget yourself. You just lay it down, that stupid self with all of its crying and whimpering and me first and all my needs and how bad I am feeling. And you can lay it down and you can say, shut up. I don't need this. I don't care what people are saying and I don't care what I am saying. I just care about what you say and what you are to me. And whenever that's happened to you, you know, for brief fleeting moments you felt the freedom, haven't you? The self-pity is gone. Finally gone. Because you look at Jesus Christ in the garden, sweating blood, writhing in the dust and you say, if He did this for me, I surely, without complaint, I surely can take my little problems in my life and bear them for Him without complaint. It utterly gets rid of your self-pity, doesn't it? And it gets rid of that self-absorption. Instead of walking into a room and saying, do I want to be here? Are these the kind of people that I want to be around? You don't even worry about that. Instead, you've taken your mind off yourself. You don't say, what am I going to get out of this evening? What am I going to get out of this hour? What am I going to get out of this conversation? What am I going to get out of this worship service? You've forgotten yourself. You don't say, behold, I. You say, behold, the Lamb of God. Look at Him dying in the dark for you. Look at Him right now until it melts you down like a nuclear reactor and you fall down before Him and when you get up, you'll be like Him. Behold the Lamb of God that taketh away the sins of the world. Let's pray.

Our Father, in a moment, as we take up the offering, as we listen to the musical offering, we pray that You will enable us to behold the Lamb of God, to take our minds off of ourselves, to repent of the one sin that really can get in the way of everything else, and that is self-reliance and self-centeredness. We're relying on ourselves. There's a pride there. We repent of the one sin that can really destroy us, self-reliance, self-sufficiency, and we say, Father, we put that whole thing down and we come to You through Jesus. Help every person here to do that, whether for the first time in their lives or for the nth time. Help us to do that as we take these next moments to meet with You and pray with You and deal with You personally. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.