Hi, my name is Chris, and it gives me great pleasure to stand up here and tell of what the Lord has done in my life. I'm sure many of you will be able to relate to my testimony, whether you're a born-again Christian or not. I don't have a shocking or dramatic testimony of how the Lord brought me out of crime and or drugs. Rather, my path to the Lord was one that seems more simple, but my final decision to commit myself to the Lord was just as difficult as any drug dealer or harding criminal who turns his or her life over to him. The decision was difficult because of the mere fact that I thought I didn't need Jesus Christ in my life. And I'm sure that everyone here wants to believe that, or you may even believe that right now. I was raised in a Christian home. I went to church and Sunday school each Sunday. always went to vacation Bible school during the summer, participated in Christian Service Brigade, a Christian equivalent to Boy's House, was actively involved in my youth group, and in high school regularly attended High B.A., which stands for High School Born-Againers. You're probably thinking, what a close walk with the Lord I must have had. Well, it was just the opposite. Even though my body was at these functions, my heart wasn't. And the reason why my heart wasn't there is because out of love and wanting to do the best thing for me, my parents made me go to all these things. Now thinking back to when you were a kid and your parents made you take out the garbage, how many of you just couldn't wait until the next garbage day came around so that you could drag out those smelly cans to the curb? I'm sure not many. And that's how I viewed Christianity, kind of like taking out the garbage. But even with my stubbornness, in the back of my mind, I knew that Jesus was the way. In my high school years, I made a compromise with the Lord that when I finished high school and started college, I would change my ways, make Christian friends, and turn my life over to him. Well, about my second year into college, still trying to, quote, find myself, and having a great time with what the world had to offer in that pursuit, once again I came to Chris's bargaining table. This time I told the Lord I would be willing to commit the rest of my life to him, but it would have to be after college so that I wouldn't have to give up my ways of the world. Six months out of college, I was hanging out with my old high school friends, had a new car, a well-paying job, and a girlfriend of four years. By the world's view, I had everything going for me, but by my view, I knew I still had a huge void in my life, and as hard as I tried to deny it and put it off, I knew that this void could only be filled by Jesus Christ. So in my bedroom, I prayed to the Lord to take my life and make me a new person. And I tell you, God was like a dam holding back all the blessings he wanted for years to pour on me. I soon ran into old high school acquaintances who were now born again and are my closest friends. Found a church I actually look forward going to, got involved in Bible studies, but above all, God humbled me and he turned the inward love I had for myself to outward love for others. for the past year and a half now, and we know as Christians that the road can be bumpy at times. The hardest thing for me while being a Christian was the breakup with my girlfriend who was not born again. I had to realize, as much as I did not want to, that out of obedience to God, we could no longer be together. But the breakup, as with any other trials, are all a part of God's plans for me, and he has, and always will, get me through them, which is the peace I never experienced before I Turning my life over to the Lord was the best thing I ever did for myself. So if any of you out there are still trying to, quote, find yourself, I challenge you to find Jesus Christ. And in closing, I would just like to leave you with these verses that come from Romans 12, verses 1 and 2. Therefore, I urge you, brothers, in view of God's mercy, to offer your bodies as living sacrifices, holy and pleasing to God. This is your spiritual act of worship. Do not conform any longer to the pattern of this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. Then you will be able to test and approve what God's will is, his good, pleasing, and perfect will. Thank you.

We did not compare notes. My name is Catherine. Catherine, 30 years ago this week at a Maundy Thursday service, I was baptized. At 13, a very meaningful symbol of my decision to follow Jesus. I fully believed my church teachers that this was the most important commitment of my life. Although I do remember thinking, except marriage. In my high school years, I became president of the New Jersey Baptist Youth Fellowship, gave the Sermon on Youth Sunday, and worked summers at church camp. At church camp in the summer of 1968, the course began to change. The most admirably intellectual of the staff had moved on from Sunday school materials to Ayn Rand and the virtue of selfishness. They laughed at their parents' lives and they could recite the betrayals of the church. To them, I was a wimp, and I couldn't see a way to defend what appeared to be an outmoded faith. I ended the summer with a different kind of commitment from those I'd made at the campfire so many years, I resolved not to pray, take communion, or in any way to go to God for an entire year. The scientific method I thought applied to God. If I made it through the year, he wasn't real and I could move on with my friends, with new freedom, with no regrets. My entire senior year in high school, I fought the habit patterns of prayer, every hint of Christian sentimentality, and the fear of disapproval when my parents and church realized

the biggest trial was during a role as lead in the school musical God could get me at my most vulnerable moment but no lightning then or the rest of the year however a light did go out and it stayed dark for 20 years college in the pursuit of truth I wasn't going to leave the Christian Church and just be a slouch I was taking the high road looking for meaning at every turn sex civil rights protests comparative religion courses motorcycles hitching hiking through surorities. I wasn't going to lie about my choices. I confronted the opposition head-on. My mother and father made well-meaning attempts to provide rational arguments for saving sex until marriage. These became funny stories to tell my friends. And interestingly, since I no longer prayed to God, I would wake up in the morning and dedicate my day, to be the best I could be to my boyfriend. I entered the leading-edge profession of aerospace economic consulting. The world around me was pushing the edge of every envelope. My firm got a space shuttle program approved by Congress. Two good friends at work and their spouses decided to pursue open marriages. Everyone I knew was getting divorced. I moved to California.

Most disturbing at that time was my three brothers and parents all became Christians, this was a problem because I really liked them. It took a lot of the fun out of going home for visits. They'd have family prayer and I'd walk around the block 30 times. I'd visit a brother's church and walk out in the middle. I threatened to never come home again if my mother didn't stop nagging about meaningful discussions about God. In California, I was blossoming. I loved my job and they loved me. I loved a kind and successful man and became primary nurturer to the was like a Sound of Music love story. I went through Est and learned how to recognize the belief systems that limited my ability to experience. That's in quotes. Although I remained committed to my own enlightened lifestyle, I couldn't help but notice my mother change, my parents' relationship grow, the loving woman my brother married, their friends in church and their steady course. Furthermore, they were off my case, and they warmly embraced my California family. way. My relationship, meanwhile, unencumbered like it was by a lasting commitment, got steadily weaker. We had no framework to address our problems. Also, I'd reached the ceiling in my job, got accepted at business school back in Virginia, and decided that was a way out. I now see it as the beginning of a seven-year journey back to God, me kicking and screaming most of the way. Business school offered another yet incomplete worldview. I was becoming cynical about the absolute authority of ideologies that needed to be completely replaced once or twice a decade, and also God that used the loneliness of the move to New York to inch me a step or two closer.

I decided to join a high society church, but something more true drew me to Redeemer. I thought alone and left right after the service. I began to think Christianity wouldn't be so bad if it weren't for the Christians. I thought I'd never want or be able to bridge the gulf between me and them in experience, philosophy, behavior. I went to Tim and I told him I was ready to pray to believe in Jesus, but not because I believed in heaven, I mean really. I began to pray, God if you are who you say you are, open my heart and reveal yourself to me. Hit me over the head with it. That prayer opened in many doors to understanding. Still, I was in negotiation with God. I'll confess sins I commit from now on, but not my past. I'll give up my Sunday mornings, but not sex. I'll be a Christian, but not ever give a testimony. I was a skeptic about confession, but when I finally did confess those past ungodly behaviors, I think God started working faster in my life. The integrity of the gospel message became more obvious to me, and my heart was changing too. In the last year, God helped me unveil some simple truths about my life. When I was 13, I did give Satan a fingerhold. I gave something else more glory than God, and he used that fingerhold for years. The idol of a perfect marriage, the perfect sex life, being loved, led me far from God's kingdom. Sexual sin was the hardest and last to confess. and ironically one of my first major decisions as a new Christian has been to walk away from an opportunity to marry a man who vowed he'd never be a Christian. But I really don't want to hold back any part of my life now. I still struggle with thinking that I'm smarter than Jesus, confessing another behavior flaw, accepting the particulars of this denomination. Yet when I review all this, it's amazing to me. I want to know God and let him work in my life. My head and heart are lined up and the light's back on inside. Thanks very much.

This really was not planned. I am the fourth in the procession of religious dropouts here.

When I was a child, I became a Christian in a small rural church in Mississippi that my father pastored. My decision was sincere, but tainted with a need to please my father. When I was in college, I began then a rather reckless rebellion from religion, from my father, and especially from that particularly noisy brand of agenda-driven fundamentalism. I confused my earthly father with my heavenly father. I lumped Christianity together with what I perceived to be false Christians. I got married. I got enough education to make me dangerous. I got divorced. I was drafted into the army, which helped to complete my excursion into rebellion and anger. After I completed my doctorate in music, I then began a teaching career as a college professor and a professional singer. Through all these experiences, God was still speaking to me, but I was not speaking with him. The miracle and the grace that I now know is that through a multiplicity of experiences and denials, there have been many well-placed teachers, friends, guides, those still small voices of truth continually sounding a tone for me in the distance that I was following. calling. These quieter voices were so patient, loving, and well-timed that their messages became very loud to me. The path led in the most interesting and mysterious way to redeem her through one of my students, Mary and her husband, Mark, introduced by yet another student whom I would not have known were it not for the most unusual of circumstances, the old I would not be here if I had not been there. But it was God's grace. I came to Redeemer last fall after having been softened and humbled by life's experience and by serious counseling and by angels that kept pointing the way. Every Sunday since I began coming to Redeemer, I have felt God's presence moving in me as though something very powerful, profound, and loving was alive right inside my very being. Tim's teaching was urgent, but it was gentle. It had the ring of truth. I listened, I was moved. It was not something I was trying. It was visited upon me through the word of God. I come here every Sunday now because I simply don't want to miss anything. And then there was that Christmas morning service. when Tim chose as his text the begats, the genealogy of Jesus as recorded in Matthew. I was so disappointed. Why the begats on Christmas morning? And then as I realized through Tim's teaching that Jesus' lineage included every brand of sinner known to man and that even my monsters and my alienation could be forgiven and that the debt had already been paid. I came under very great conviction and joy and remorse, and I was overwhelmed by the power and love of God that he could send down his love in human form to speak to me and to all mankind and then pay the price for my resistance and my rebellion. I had to slip out of the back row I had for some reason chosen that day, out to the park and sat on a very big solid rock and I poured out my heart to God and I asked for forgiveness and I professed my faith at that moment even as I do now publicly and as I did in Tim's office as he prayed with me as I left that rock I was moved to give away all the money I had with me that day to a couple of homeless guys but that was nothing compared to the blessing that I felt that was exchanged to them, that was through God's grace. The peace and the healing that I have experienced has in many ways been incremental over the years through many quantitative changes. But that threshold was reached on Christmas Day when those quantitative changes became qualitative and love came down on Christmas once more and changed my heart and soul forever.

You have to understand how difficult it is for me to use this language as a religious dropout, as I already mentioned. These words that have been associated with Christianity for so many years, these words have felt sort of creepy Christianese, if you will. I became completely, completely allergic to that kind of language used by Christians that I had handpicked to justify my own reaction. but in the same way that a cliché is annoying to us, not because it isn't true, but because of its repetition by those who haven't done enough personal homework, the word of God is no less true because it is used by compromised Christians. I don't give up on theater when I occasionally see bad acting, after all.

I flew home that day, and I reconciled with my father. And I expressed gratitude for the biblical training that had made its imprint on my soul until I could become an adult Christian. And I thanked my mother, whose sweet, gentle voice was constant and tempered my spirit. I really don't know why I was given so many chances and such a generous portion of grace, because I know I haven't deserved it. but I know that I can return the gift as best I can through my voice and my teaching. I am honored and I am humbled by my calling to teach and there is nothing more rewarding to me than my job and my joy of teaching singers. That spirit really does mingle with matter when you sing and when you surrender to the words and the music that God has given us. thanks to God from whom all these blessings flow.

Teaching in Space tonight is not written in your bulletin. Let me read it to you. In the book of Acts, chapter 2, Peter gives the first sermon, the first sermon in the history of the Christian church, at least as we understand it, because after the resurrection of Christ, Jesus said, when I ascend to my Father, I'll send the Holy Spirit, and then the church will, sense, begin, and we look at the day of Pentecost, the day in which the risen Christ gave out the gift of the Holy Spirit into the church to be, in a sense, the birthday of the church, the first day of the church. Now, on that day, Peter preached the first sermon. First sermon's pretty important. When I preached my first sermon at Redeemer, I tried very hard to make sure that I gave the essential nub of what I thought the ministry and the message of this church should be. When you go meeting of any new organization, you expect to talk about the main thing that this organization is going to be all about, and therefore, it's interesting to read the first sermon, the first sermon ever in the history of the church. Here's where you get to the essentials of what the Christian faith is about, the Christian church is about, the Christian is about. Let me just read you a couple of verses out of this sermon. This is chapter two, verse 22 I'll start and read sections. And Peter gets up and says, Men of Israel, listen to this. Jesus of Nazareth was a man accredited by God to you by miracles, wonders, and signs, which God did among you through him, as you yourselves know. This man was handed over to you by God's set purpose and foreknowledge, and you, with the help of wicked men, put him to death by nailing him to the cross. But God has raised him from the dead, him from the agony of death because it was impossible for death to keep its hold on him. God has raised this Jesus to life and we are all witnesses of the fact. Exalted to the right hand of God, he has received from the Father the promised Holy Spirit has poured out what you now see and hear. And when the people heard this, they were cut to the heart and they said to Peter, Peter, brothers, what shall we do? And Peter said, repent. Be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins. You'll receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. And with many other words, he warned them, save yourselves from this corrupt generation. And those who accepted his message were baptized and about 3,000 were added to that number that day.

Now, don't you see? The essential thing that the Christian church is about and the essential thing that the Christian message is about essential thing that the Christian is about. It's right here. In a sense, it's all in this little verse 32. Peter says it. God has raised this Jesus to life, and we are witnesses of the fact. God raised him from the dead, freeing him from the agony of death, because it was impossible for death to keep its hold on him. What does that tell us? The resurrection is the nub. The resurrection is the heart, the resurrection is the thing, and the fact that the central statement of the first sermon was the resurrection tells us two things about the Christian message, let me just enumerate them for you, two main things, it tells us something about the character of the Christian message, and it tells us about the content, the character and the content, content. Here's what it tells us about the character. The character, the shape, the nature of the Christian message is intellectually aggressive. Look at how Peter goes after them. Save yourselves from a corrupt generation. Flee from the wrath which is to come. It's intellectually aggressive. Why do I put it that way? Well, here's why. For many years, years, people have been saying, and actually it's coming in stronger than ever. I was just reading this in some leading anthropologist, reading about this in the New York Times just a little while ago. What people are saying today is this. When cultures and nations were isolated from each other, when you would grow up in a culture and it was a homogeneous culture and you very seldom ran into the members of other nations, other cultures, other races, when we were pretty isolated from each other. It was easy and alright, I guess, for religions and cultures to make absolute claims. Absolute claims of truth. But now we live in a pluralistic society. Yes, we live in a pluralistic society. And look at your floor. Here's a Hindu family here, and here's a Buddhist family here, and here's a secular couple here, and so on. Well, we're all on top of each other. And now, says the anthropologist, and now say folks in general, and they've been saying this for a number of years, and they especially say it in Manhattan, and a lot of the churches have believed this, we have got to reinterpret Christianity. No more absolute claims. No more talking about miracles and the uniqueness of the Son of God. No more talking about these things. Let's stress commonalities. Let's stress the fact that, let's stress the things we agree on, that the ethic of love is important and that God is depth. God is the ground of all being. let's address those things, let's adapt to the new realities of the world, the realities of the pluralistic society, instead of that, you see Peter, not seeking to take cues from the world's thinking, but seeking to set the pace of the world's thinking, he's intellectually aggressive, he goes after, he says, repent, be baptized, turn, save yourselves from this corrupt generation, flee from the wrath which is to come, Those were different days. Really? Ah, yes, we live in a pluralistic society now. Wait a minute. Peter was speaking into the Greco-Roman world at least as pluralistic as our society. If you know something about history, you know this. The Pax Romana, the Roman Empire, did something that really had not ever happened before. The Roman power knit together diverse cultures and religions and nations in a way that they've never been before. And as a result of that, they were all on top of each other, and every city was incredibly pluralistic. And let me point this out to you. You'll see back then, Christianity flourished. Christianity took off, especially in pluralistic places. We know that Paul and Peter and the other apostles avoided

They avoided places where everybody was this religion, everybody was that religion, everybody was this ethnic group, everybody was that ethnic group, they stayed away, they went to cities, they went right into the teeth of pluralism, why?

Christianity has the most to gain, it always has flourished in places like Manhattan, places like Corinth, places like Antioch, and you know why? Because Christianity is about truth, if you, and we actually heard some reference to this, didn't we not, in some of the testimonies? If you grow up and everybody's Christian around you, and if you are a Christian, because everybody around you is Christian, because your family's Christian, because your ethnic group is Christian, because that's the way, that's who you are, that's who your people are. If you grow up because everybody's a Christian, the Bible says you may not at all be one then. Haven't you heard the little phrase, God has no grandchildren? He's got many children, no grandchildren. You've got to go to God directly Um, let me put it to you this way. If you say, I'm a Christian because, well, my people are Christian, you're not a Christian. Christianity is about truth. The gospel is, believe this because it's true. I don't care who your parents are, I don't care who your grandparents are, I don't care what your ethnic group is, this is the truth. That's the way Christianity has always been, and we are always, we always do better. Peter did great, in pluralistic places. You know why? Because in the cities, the Buddhists, the Hindus, the Catholics, the Protestants, the Jews, no matter who you are, because you're thrown in with everybody else, you have to think things out. You don't do things simply because that's the way I was raised. Not in cities. Oh, no. You have to think. And that puts Christianity at a tremendous advantage. Always has. Christians don't get passive when they get into pluralistic places. know they'll thrive the best, because Christianity, if nothing else, Christianity dares people to think. It says, do not believe what you believe because this is the way you were raised. Believe because, look at the truth, look at the reasoning, look at the evidence, look at the coherence of the faith, look at the resurrection, because this is why, now look, this is the reason that Christianity thrives in pluralistic settings, and this is the reason that Christianity is so aggressive settings in a winsome, hopefully respectful, humble way, but it's still aggressive. Why? Peter says, God has raised Jesus from the dead and we are witnesses of the fact. He says, Christianity, here's the shape of it. Here it is. Christianity is a witness, not a philosophy. He says, Christians are witnesses, not philosophers. Now listen, I love philosophy personally. I love reading philosophy. I enjoy philosophy. Let me just difference here a philosopher someone who after a lot of effort comes to an idea a witness is someone to whom an idea has come all right and put it another way philosophers so you know I didn't seen anybody go all right philosophers you know you know you know elimination all right but another philosophers overtake ideas but witnesses are people who have been overtaken by ideas. Put it this way. Oh, that's better. Think of it this way, okay? Okay. A witness is someone who says, the dam has burst. Run for your lives. There's a 20-foot wall of water coming. That's a witness. Why? The fact has overtaken him. It's on its way. And he comes to people and says, the fact will overtake you. Now, when a person comes in and saying, news, that's witness. so witnesses, the fact has come to me, I wasn't looking for, it's hit me, it's on its way, and I want to tell you about it, we are witnesses to the fact, when you're a witness, not a philosopher, when a person comes to witness, there's only two things you can do, you can say, yes, his witness is true, and I'm going to run, or you say, no, his witness is not true, and I'm going to stay put, but you never say, what an interesting perspective, you don't do that, you don't say, let's sit down, what an interesting perspective, so you have your, my understanding of this. No, he's either right or he's wrong. That's not true with philosophers. That's true with witnesses. And Peter is showing us that the Christian message is like the news of a burst dam. The Christian message says, Jesus Christ, our mighty captain, has broken through. He's opened a cleft in the walls of the universe. And you need to go through it to God, because to the world. The dam has burst. Now, is it right or is it wrong? I can't go into all of that right now. Don't have time on a night like this in particular. The point is, see the form. When somebody tries to reinterpret Christianity and says, ah, you know, we need to stress the commonalities. We need to stress the fact we all have the love ethic. Let's not talk about the resurrection, the miracles, and those sorts of things. That is not a more liberal kind of Christianity. That's not a more enlightened kind of Christianity. That's a fundamental change in the very nature of the message. It's moving from being a witness to being a philosophy.

It's unfair. The resurrection proves and shows the character of our message. Then secondly, and by the way, you know, we see what Peter's saying. Peter's saying, before I get to the second point and the last point, what Peter's saying is, I saw this. I ran into the tomb and I saw the grave closed. No body. Then later I saw him myself. He came through doors that were locked. Yet he ate a fish. I spoke to him. I saw him. Now, the dam has burst. That's not philosophy. That's not a commonality. That's either right or it's wrong. That's the nature. And you know what's great? In a pluralistic society, where people are not asked just to, you know, abide by what they were, but where people think out, Christianity is so well, about reasoning, about evidence, it's about using your brain. Christians say, don't believe this because that's your people, that's your nationality, believe it because it's true, and here's why. Okay, secondly, and here's what's wonderful, secondly, the resurrection, the fact that he teaches the resurrection also teaches us and shows us the content of the Christian message, not just the form, but the content. What's the content? The content is, he was released from the agony of death. He was raised up, he was released from the agony of death because death could not hold on to him. The resurrection is so central because it tells us, it proves the two things that make Christianity different than all the other religions. Number one, Christianity differs from other religions in that our founder doesn't point the way to God but claims to be God. That's the first difference. Well, how does the resurrection bear on that? The resurrection proves that he's the son of God. It says in Romans 1, verse 4, God declared him to be his son when he raised him up. And in Ephesians 1, around verse 20, God showed forth the mighty exceedingness of his power when Jesus Christ was raised from the dead. Listen, the reason that we know Jesus was God was because he rose from the dead. The greatest power in the world is death. You know, nuclear warheads, do you realize that they don't have the power of death? Why not? They cannot increase the death rate. Do you know plagues? Do you know absolute tyrants who can wipe people out? They can't increase the death rate. You know what the death rate is? One to one. One death for every person. You can hurry it up. You can sort of concentrate it together. Listen, nobody's got the power, nobody's got any power except death. Tornadoes don't have any power. They can kill people, but that's just concentrating it together. They don't really have the power of death. The ultimate power in the universe is death. Nobody gets out from under death, did. Why? This was not just a prophet. This was the Son of God. He declared him the Son of God with power when he rose from the dead. But here's the other thing. The gospel not only says that our founder is not just one who points to God, but is God himself. The gospel also says you are not saved by your good works. You're saved by grace alone, through faith alone, because of Christ alone. alone. You're saved because Jesus Christ came and he satisfied all the requirements of the law. He satisfied the justice of the law. Now, how do you know that? This little word agony has been working on me. It says, Peter says, God, he took him out. He removed him from the agony of death. He released him from the agony of death when he raised him from the dead because death could not hold on to him. On Friday night, I was speaking to our college ministry. A bunch of folks came out at Columbia University. Some of you were probably there. And I was talking about the place in Mark 14. In the Garden of Gethsemane, we're told Jesus began to be in agony. You know what the agony was? It was the penalty for our death. It was a penalty for our sins. And in the garden, now I'm one of those people that I'm cursed with this particular problem that on the way home in way, after the meeting, I get my best thoughts. And on the way home, I began to think about what God did to Jesus in the garden. I want you to look at it for a minute, and you'll see immediately why death couldn't hold on to him. In the garden, you know, Jesus had said, I'm going to die for the sins of my people. Okay. But first thing that happened in the garden was God began to give him a foretaste of the agony of being forsaken and cut off and rejected. He began to give him a foretaste. Mark, and we're told in Luke, he began to sweat blood. He was in shock. God began to pull back. God began to give him a foretaste of the agony he was going to go through. He didn't wait until Jesus got to the cross with the nails on the hands with everybody around. He let Jesus get a taste of the agony when there was nobody looking, when there was everybody was asleep. And the father sat down and said something to Jesus. to anyone else in history, when the Father, when the Son, when God says to any of us, obey me, what does he say? He says, if you obey me, I'll bless you, right? He says, him who cometh to me, I will in no wise cast out. But to Jesus, God says something that he's never said to anyone else. God says to Jesus, my son, if you come to me, I will in every wise cast you out. If you come to me, I will crush you into the ground. I will pour my wrath out into your heart. And I will, in effect, send you to hell. Are you ready? There's an incredible temptation. There was incredible pressure. No one's ever been asked to obey and then told, I'll forsake you. No one was ever asked to obey and get a foretaste of the forsakenness when he could have left. But that's not all. Jesus was also shown us. He says to his disciples, would you please stay awake with me in my hour of greatest need he says my soul is overcome even unto death

and three times they fall asleep fall three times they fall asleep on him now do you know what that's like can you imagine maybe this has happened to you but it probably hasn't what if one night something happened to you what if you were told you're going to die what if you were told the person you love the most in the world is about to die or has died and what if you called a friend on the phone and said I don't think I'm going to make it. I feel, I look out and I just see darkness in front of me. This is the worst moment of my life. I am without hope. I am without strength. I don't know that I'm going to make it through the night. This is the greatest hour of need. Would you please come? Would you please come over? And the person says, okay, and never comes.

And later on you find that person and you say, what happened? Oh, gee, I forgot. I fell asleep. I forgot all about it. What would you say? You forgot? How could you forget? Didn't you hear me? I've never felt so betrayed in my life. Jesus Christ says, I'm about to die. My soul is overcome even to death. I'm asking one thing of you. I don't ask much. Would you please stay awake and pray with me? Three times he asks, they fall asleep. And then God puts down in front of him the cup and says, you're going to die for them. him. He shows Jesus us at our worst. He shows him what he's going to go through. And then he actually puts in front of Jesus, not just the cup of his wrath, but he puts in front of Jesus a perfect picture of you and me falling asleep. No gratitude, no sense of who he is or what he's done, absolutely self-absorbed, Jesus looks at you and me, sleeping on the ground, falling asleep in the hour of his greatest need, and he looks at the cup, and he says what? Not my will, but thine be done. I'll do it for them. There has never been an act of love for God like that, because God's never said, obey me, and I'll crush you, and there has never been an act of love for you and me like that. Have you felt like you've been falling asleep on him? Have you felt like you have let him down unbelievably? Do you realize that he'd die for you all over again?

Do you know why death couldn't hold him? Because into death went something that it never swallowed ever before, perfect love. Not just perfect deity, perfect love, satisfaction for the law. Death is an executioner. Death only has the right to those who have disobeyed the law. incredible single act of love. He absolutely loved the Lord his God with all his heart, soul, strength, and mind. He loved his neighbor as himself. The ultimate act. And he went into death. And when death swallowed perfect love, it exploded. Out he came. Why?

He fulfilled his punishment. The reason he was out of the agony, because when you get out of prison, you fulfill it. He fulfilled the law. He fulfilled everything you could possibly to be accepted with the Father.

As a result, death could not hold him. Now, do you know what that means? Jesus loves you so much, he would do that. That's the reason why you're going to be resurrected if you trust in him. He will not go to heaven and leave you behind now. He will not go into glory and leave you behind now. After all he's done, this is the love you've always wanted. This is indestructible love. Love that death itself could not swallow. And death is the greatest power in the universe. What are you afraid of now? That's the reason why the hymn ends, So are we now where Christ has led, Following our exalted head. Made like him, like him we rise. Look, ours the cross, the graves, the skies. The cross? The grave? The skies? What are we talking about? If you're a Christian, he loves you like that. That love is indestructible. That love has destroyed death. That love will not let death take you out either. And therefore, no matter what happens to you, cross, graves, or skies, it's all ours. It's all ours. it. Everything. The worst thing that can happen to you is that you die and it makes you the best. It makes you glorious. It makes you like him if you're a Christian. Everything, everything is part of his loving plan for you. He's not going to let anything take you down. He's not going to let anything. His love for you has already experienced the ultimate for you. What's that mean?

What's it mean? It means Jesus Christ has been raised from the dead That is the most important fact in history That's the center of your life It's the center of the church It's the center of the Christian message

It's what our lives are all about Do you understand that? Have you taken that in? Let's pray Father, tonight we see people's lives change was raised from the dead. And we see why he was raised from the dead. Because he was the Son of God and because he loved us to the end. What wonders, what mysteries in this appointment shine. My breaches of the law are his and his obedience mine. To see the law by love fulfilled and hear his pardoning voice transforms a slave into a child and duty into choice. Give us, O Father, a sense of the power that the resurrection has brought into our lives. Give us a sense of what the resurrection teaches us and preaches to us and shows us so that we can live life with a due to people who say we are witnesses to the fact. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. You know, have the love ethic. Let's not talk about the resurrection, the miracles, and those sorts of things. not a more liberal kind of Christianity. That's not a more enlightened kind of Christianity. That's a fundamental change in the very nature of the message. It's moving from being a witness to being a philosophy. It's unfair. The resurrection proves and shows the character of our message. Then secondly, and by the way, you know, we see what Peter's saying. Peter's saying, before I get to the second point and the last point. What Peter's saying is, I saw this. I ran into the tomb and I saw the grave closed. No body. Then later I saw him myself. He came through doors that were locked, yet he ate a fish. I spoke to him. I saw him. Now the dam has burst. That's not philosophy. That's not a commonality. That's either right or it's wrong. That's the nature. And you know what's great in a pluralistic society, where people are not asked just to, you know, abide by what they but where people think out, Christianity is so well, because Christianity is about truth, about reasoning, about evidence, it's about using your brain. Christians say, don't believe this because that's your people, that's your nationality, believe it because it's true, and here's why. Okay, secondly, and here's what's wonderful, secondly, the resurrection, the fact that he teaches the resurrection, also teaches us and shows us the content of the Christian message, but the content. What's the content? The content is

he was released from the agony of death. He was raised up, he was released from the agony of death because death could not hold on to him. The resurrection is so central because it tells us, it proves the two things that make Christianity different than all the other religions. Number one, Christianity differs from other religions in that our founder doesn't point the way to God, claims to be God. That's the first difference. Well, how does the resurrection bear on that? The resurrection proves that he's the son of God. It says in Romans chapter 1, verse 4, God declared him to be his son when he raised him up. And in Ephesians 1, around verse 20, Paul says, God showed forth the mighty exceedingness of his power when Jesus Christ was raised from the dead. Listen, the reason that we know Jesus was God was because he rose from the dead. The greatest power in the world is death. You know, nuclear warheads, do you realize that they don't have the power of death? Why not? They cannot increase the death rate. Do you know plagues? Do you know absolute tyrants who can wipe people out? They can't increase the death rate. You know what the death rate is? One to one. for every person. You can hurry it up. You can sort of concentrate it together. Listen, nobody's got the power. Nobody's got any power except death. Tornadoes don't have any power. They can kill people, but that's just concentrating it together. They don't really have the power of death. The ultimate power in the universe is death. Nobody gets out from under death, but this one did. Why? This was not just a prophet. This was the Son of God. He declared him the Son of God with power when he rose from the dead. But here's the other thing. The Gospel not only says that our founder is not just one who points to God, but is God himself. The Gospel also says you are not saved by your good works. You're saved by grace alone, through faith alone, because of Christ alone. You're saved because Jesus Christ came and he satisfied all the requirements of the law, he satisfied the justice of the law. Now, how do you know that? This little word agony has been working on me. It says, Peter says, God,

he took him out. He removed him from the agony of death. He released him from the agony of death when he raised him from the dead because death could not hold on to him. On Friday night, I was speaking to our college ministry. A bunch of folks came out at Columbia University. Some and I was talking about the place in Mark 14. In the Garden of Gethsemane, we're told Jesus began to be in agony. You know what the agony was? It was the penalty for our death. It was a penalty for our sins. And in the garden, now I'm one of those people that, I'm cursed with this particular problem that on the way home in the subway, after the meeting, I get my best thoughts. And on the way home, I began to think about what God did to Jesus in the garden. to look at it for a minute and you'll see immediately why death couldn't hold on to him. In the garden, you know, Jesus had said, I'm going to die for the sins of my people. Okay. But first thing that happened in the garden was God began to give him a foretaste of the agony of being forsaken and cut off and rejected. He began to give him a foretaste. We're told in Mark and we're told in Luke, he began to sweat blood. He was in shock. God began to pull back. God began to give him a foretaste of the agony he was going to go through. He didn't wait until Jesus got to the cross with the nails on the hands with everybody around. He let Jesus get a taste of the agony when there was nobody looking, when there was everybody was asleep. And the father sat down and said something to Jesus he's never said to anyone else in history. when the father when the son when god says to any of us obey me what does he say he says if you obey me i'll bless you right he says him who cometh to me i will in no wise cast out but to jesus god says something that he's never said to anyone else god says to jesus my son if you come to me I will in every wise cast you out. If you come to me I will crush you into the ground. I will pour my wrath out into your heart and I will in effect send you to hell. Are you ready? There's an incredible temptation. There was incredible pressure. No one's ever been asked to obey and then told I'll forsake you. No one was ever asked to obey and get a foretaste of the forsakenness when he could have left.

Jesus was also shown us. He says to his disciples, would you please stay awake with me in my hour of greatest need? He says, my soul is overcome even unto death.

And three times they fall asleep. Three times they fall asleep on him. Now, do you know what that's like? Can you imagine? Maybe this has happened to you, but it probably hasn't. What if one night something happened to you? What if you were told you're going to die? What if you were told the person you love most in the world is about to die or has died. And what if you called a friend on the phone and said, I don't think I'm gonna make it. I feel, I look out and I just see darkness in front of me. This is the worst moment of my life. I am without hope. I am without strength. I don't know that I'm gonna make it through the night. This is the greatest hour of need. Would you please come? Would you please come over? And the person says, okay. And never comes.

And later on you find that person and you say, what happened? Oh, gee, I forgot. I fell asleep. I forgot all about it. What would you say? You forgot? How could you forget? Didn't you hear me? I've never felt so betrayed in my life. Jesus Christ says, I'm about to die. My soul is overcome even to death. I'm asking one thing of you. I don't ask much. Would you please stay awake and pray with me? Three times he asks, they fall asleep, and then God puts down in front of him the cup. and says, you're going to die for them. He shows Jesus us at our worst. He shows him what he's going to go through, and then he actually puts in front of Jesus, not just the cup of his wrath, but he puts in front of Jesus a perfect picture of you and me, falling asleep, no gratitude, no sense of who he is or what he's done, absolutely self-absorbed. Jesus looks at you and me, on the ground, falling asleep in the hour of his greatest need, and he looks at the cup and he says what? Not my will but thine be done, I'll do it for them. There has never been an act of love for God like that, because God's never said, obey me and I'll crush you, and there has never been an act of love for you and me like that. Have you felt like you've been falling asleep on him? Have you felt like you have let him down unbelievably? Do you realize that he died for you all over again?

do you know why death couldn't hold him? Because into death went something that it never swallowed ever before, perfect love. Not just perfect deity, perfect love, satisfaction for the law. Death is an executioner. Death only has the right to those who have disobeyed the law. But with this incredible single act of love, he loved the Lord his God with all his heart, soul, strength, and mind. He loved his neighbor as himself. The ultimate act. And he went into death. and when death swallowed perfect love, it exploded. Out he came. Why? He fulfilled his punishment. The reason he was out of the agony, because when you get out of prison, you fulfill it. He fulfilled the law. He fulfilled everything you could possibly be required to do to be accepted with the Father. As a result, death could not hold him. Now, do you know what that means? Jesus loves you so much he would do that. That's the reason why you're going to be resurrected if you trust in him. He will not go to heaven and leave you behind now. He will not go into glory and leave you behind now. After all he's done, this is the love you've always wanted. This is indestructible love, love that death itself could not swallow. And death is the greatest power in now. That's the reason why the hymn ends, so are we now where Christ has led, following our exalted head. Made like him, like him we rise. Look, ours, the cross, the graves, the skies. The cross, the grave, the skies. What are we talking about? If you're a Christian, he loves you like that. That love is indestructible. That love has destroyed death. That love will not let death take you out either. And therefore, no matter what happens to you, cross, graves, or skies, eyes, it's all ours, it's all ours, every part of it, everything, the worst thing that can happen to you is that you die, and it makes you the best, it makes you glorious, it makes you like him if you're a Christian, everything, everything is part of his loving plan for you, he's not going to let anything take you down, he's not going to let anything, his love for you has already experienced the ultimate for you. What's that mean? What's it mean? It means Jesus Christ has been raised from the dead. That is the most important fact in history. That's the center of your life. It's the center of the church. It's the center of the Christian message. It's what our lives are all about. Do you understand that? Have you taken that in? Let's pray. Father, tonight we see people's lives changed because your son was raised from the dead. And we see why he was raised from the dead. Because he was the son of God and because he loved us to the end.

What wonders, what mysteries in this appointment shine. My breaches of the law are his and his obedience mine. To see the law by love fulfilled and hear his pardoning voice transforms a slave give us, oh Father, a sense of the power that the resurrection has brought into our lives. Give us a sense of what the resurrection teaches us and preaches to us and shows us so that we can live life with a due to people who say we are witnesses to the fact. In Jesus name we pray, amen.
