Our scripture reading comes from Psalm 22, 1 through 31.

My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Why are you so far from saving me, so far from the words of my groaning? O my God, I cry out my day, but you do not answer me. by night, and am not silent. Yet you are enthroned as the Holy One. You are the praise of Israel. In you our fathers put their trust. They trusted, and you delivered them. They cried to you and were saved. In you they trusted and were not disappointed. but I am a worm and not a man, scorned by men and despised by the people. All who seek me mock me. They hurl insults, shaking their heads. He trusts in the Lord. Let the Lord rescue him. Let him deliver him, since he delights in him. him. Yet you brought me out of the womb. You made me trust in you even at my mother's breast. From birth I was cast upon you. From my mother's womb you have been my God. Do not be far from me, for trouble is near and there is no one to help. many bulls surround me strong bulls of passion encircle me roaring lions tearing their prey open their mouths wide against me I am poured out like water and all my bones are out of joint my heart was turned to wax it has melted away within me my strength is dried up like a potcher,

and my tongue sticks to the roof of my mouth. You lay me in the dusts of death. Dogs have surrounded me. A band of evil men have encircled me. They have pierced my hands and my feet. I can count all my bones. People stare and gloat over me. divide my garments among them, and cast lots for my clothing. But you, O Lord, be not far off. O my strength, come quickly to help me. Deliver my life from the sword, my precious life, from the power of the dogs. Rescue me from the mouths of the lions. Save me from the horns of the wild oxen. I will declare your name to my brothers. In the congregation I will praise you. You who fear the Lord, praise him. All you descendants of Jacob, honor him. Revere him, all you descendants of Israel, for he has not despised or disdained the sufferings of the afflicted one. He has not hidden his face from him, but has listened to the cry for help. From you comes the theme of my praise in the great assembly. Before those who fear you, I will fulfill my vows. The poor will eat and be satisfied. They who seek the Lord will praise him. May your hearts live forever. All the ends of the earth will remember and turn to the Lord. And all the families of the nations will bow down before him. for dominion belongs to the Lord and he rules over the nations. All the rich of the earth will feast and worship. All who go down to the dust will kneel before him. Those who cannot keep themselves alive,

posterity will serve him. Future generations will be told about the Lord. They will proclaim his righteousness to the people yet unborn. For he has done it. This is the word of the Lord.

The most climactic moment in Jesus' life, he cried out the first words of this psalm. And you must remember that, though I always forget, at, in those days, they didn't have chapter numbers. They didn't have verses and numbers. They didn't even have titles for the books. The way he referred to a book or a chapter was you quoted the first words of it. And so when Jesus cried out Psalm 22 on the cross, that first verse, he was saying, this Psalm is what I'm all about. This Psalm reveals what I'm here to do, what I'm doing right now. And if it's true that this is the most important quote that Jesus ever made, that this reveals the essence of who Jesus is, and secondly, if Jesus is the most important single human figure in the history of the world, then thirdly, anyone who wants to live in this world understanding what's going on in it needs to understand this psalm. that, is to ask these three questions. What is the mystery of this Psalm? What's the solution to the mystery? And what does it mean practically for us? Let's look at the mystery of this Psalm, the solution for the mystery of this Psalm, and then practically what it means for us. Now, the first thing, I want you to see how incredibly mysterious this Psalm is as it reads. needs. It's an enormously mysterious, difficult writing. This is David's psalm. This is the psalm of David, King David, Psalm 22. I want you to notice a couple of things that are just about inexplicable about it. First, there's the inexplicably juridical nature of David's treatment. The juridical nature of David's treatment. What's happening to him? Class, what's happening to him? him. In verse 6 to 8, we see he's out in public where people are jeering at him. In verse 17, they're gloating and they're scorning him. Secondly, he's dying of thirst, verse 15, so that the tongue is swollen up and has begun to choke him. He is so emaciated, verse 17, that you can see his bones, every one of them. And verse 16, he has been pierced in his feet either by a sword or by a shaft or by a spear. What is happening to him? This is an execution. This is a public execution. And the clincher to that interpretation is verse 18 where it says, they cast lots for my garments. And when a criminal was executed, the executioners got the clothes. Now, the reason this is an incredible mystery is where in the world was King David ever up, being executed? Where did he have a public trial? Where was he executed? We know more about David's life than any other figure of ancient history, antiquity, and there's nothing about this there in fact how could there be how could the most how could the greatest king of Israel have ever come into this situation and in fact we have to be careful not to be anachronistic and read what we do today back into those days if you overthrew a king you didn't have a public trial you didn't do the sodom hussein thing you didn't bring up for a public trial and have a jury and a judge and all that sort of thing you just had a coup you killed him and you sat on the throne yourself in other words not only did that this never happened to David couldn't have happened to David. And the most, that's not all. Not only do we have the inexplicably juridical nature of his treatment, we have the inexplicable submissiveness of David to this treatment. If you read the Psalms, one thing you know is that David never took injustice lying down. Never. He's always crying out for justice. He's always crying out that God would smash the perpetrator's teeth. He's always saying things that are very harsh to our modern ears. None of that's here. Even though this is the most extreme situation that we see anywhere in any of the Psalms, the most extreme situation and the most extreme injustice, there is not a word crying out for God to smash the perpetrators. So we see the inexplicable juridical nature of his treatment, the inexplicable submissiveness of him to the treatment, of David to the treatment, and then, of course, lastly, the inexplicable absence of God. Because, see, verses 4 and 5 say, historically, if you cry in faith to God, God will hear you. But God is treating David as if he was faithless. God, in verse 1, is not hearing him. He's treating reading him as if he's somebody he's not. But the most inexplicable of all the parts of this psalm is the ending. See, in verse 20 and 21, David is saying, deliver me from death. Deliver my life from the sword. Rescue me. And then in verse 22, he's talking as if this deliverance is going to happen or has happened. I will declare your name, for he has not despised to disdain the suffering of the afflicted one. He has listened to his cry for help. In other words, verse 22 and following, we see that David says, I will be delivered from death, or I have been delivered from death. But look at the results. In verse 27, he says, all the ends of the earth will remember and turn to the Lord. All the families of the nations will bow down before him. What? David says, I was about to be executed, but God delivered me from death. And because of that, all the nations of the earth will get converted.

The poor nations, verse 26. The rich nations, verse 29. What he's saying is, as a result of my deliverance, instead of one little racial ethnic group worshiping the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, all the nations of the earth will be doing that. And he has the audacity to go further and to say that it's not just that this deliverance is going to lead to mass conversion of the peoples of the earth to the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, but also that endless generations will remember this deliverance. Verse 30, verse 31, posterity will serve him. Future generations will be told about how the Lord has done this. How could David possibly imagine that his deliverance from death, no matter how heroic, no matter how dramatic, could possibly lead to the conversion of all the nations of the earth. Do you see that this psalm, on the face of it, as it's read, is an absolute enigma, is unbelievably mysterious? How in the world the original hearers would have read it, I have no idea. But what's the solution to the mystery? Well, there's only one solution I know. There's only one way to account for this psalm, and that's to believe what Peter the apostle said in Acts chapter 2, verse 31. He said, being a prophet, David foresaw and spoke of the Christ. In other words, what Peter's saying is that David was suffering, and he was meditating and reflecting on his suffering, but as he did so, by the power of the Holy Spirit, he got prophetic insight into a greater David, who was going to go through a greater suffering, a greater abandonment by God, a greater deliverance that would lead to an everlasting kingdom. In other words, when Jesus cried this out on the cross, he said there's absolutely no possible way to make any sense of Psalm 22 unless you understand it's about me. And only will you be able to make sense of me if you understand Psalm 22. So what does this great cry, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? why does this great cry tell us about what Jesus is all about? It tells us three things. The first thing it tells us is about the infinity of his sufferings. The infinity of his sufferings. When Jesus cried out, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? When he screamed it, you realize what a departure that was. Because up until that point, Jesus had been getting all kinds of things happening to him, and he hadn't said a word. he had been flogged he had been beaten he'd been mocked of course he'd had thorns driven into his skull he actually had nails driven through his hands and all during that time that he was quiet he was silent he had that kind of poise he took it in fact the texts say he was like a lamb he was like a lamb who's silent before his shearers so he never said a thing all that suffering all that never said a thing. He could take it. Then suddenly he screams. And that means something new is happening. Something, some kind of agony, some kind of pain beyond the physical, beyond the nails, beyond the thorns, beyond all that. Because he doesn't cry, my hands, my hands. Does he? He doesn't cry, my feet, my feet, my skull, my skull. He cries, my God, my God. He is experiencing something infinitely beyond, worse than the physical suffering. It is separation from God. Do you understand that? Do we understand that?

The Bible says, and we know, that we're made for relationships. And as bad as it is to lose all your money, as bad as it is to lose money, as bad as it is to lose health. That's nothing like losing love. It's nothing like losing the love of a lifetime. The counselors will tell you, psychologists will tell you that there is nothing more devastating than to lose a lifetime love. But look at Jesus. His relationship with the Father is not just a 30- or 40-year love relationship. They've loved one another from all eternity. And this isn't two parties whose bodies have been pressed together to express love, but they've been wrapped up in each other's souls, literally, from all eternity, here's the son who lived utterly for the father, who lived wholly for the father, and he's lost him.

And just as physical pain is infinitely less than the pain of the loss of love, so the pain of a loss of a human relationship is infinitely less than this. And we know the agony of the loss of human love. What must this have been like? See, the Bible says also that we're made for the presence of God. We need the presence of God spiritually. The way a flower needs the sunlight, or it fades. And you know, if the sun were suddenly to go off, every living organism on this earth would immediately be destroyed. When Jesus Christ lost the Father's presence, at that instant, Jesus was engulfed in absolute freezing eternal darkness. His soul unraveled infinitely. He experienced absolute infinite spiritual destruction. So the first thing we, when he says, my God, my God, why has thou forsaken me? The first thing we learn from this cry is the infinity of his suffering. The second thing that we learn from this cry, is the infinity of his faithfulness. The infinity of his faithfulness. See, on the surface, when he says, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? It seems like he's losing his grip, doesn't he? But it doesn't. It means exactly the opposite, exactly the opposite.

Do you know what it means to say, my God? You know what it meant to Jesus? It's the language of covenant faithfulness. When God got the people of Israel together at Sinai, looked down from Mount Sinai, and he said, I'm going to enter into an intimate personal relationship with you, an intimate covenant with you. You will be my people, and I will be your God. And so when Jesus is calling him my God, it's a language of covenant loyalty. It's a language of faithfulness. It's a language of intimacy. I mean, if you overhear somebody saying, my Sally or my Johnny, you may not know who they are at all, It must be their children. It must be their spouse or something like that because you don't say my without it being the language of intimacy. Now, you know what this means. In the midst of his infinite suffering, Jesus is saying, My God, Captain Ahab, just before he died, said to Moby Dick, From hell's heart I stab at thee. Well, get this. Here is Jesus Christ. somebody who literally was in hell's heart. He was literally in hell's heart, but you know what he says from hell's heart? He says, from hell's heart, I still love you. In hell's heart, I'm still faithful to you. You are still my God. I'm still faithful to my covenant God.

He's still loving God in the midst of this infinite suffering, you know, The direction to the first Adam was, obey God and you will live. But the direction to the second Adam, Jesus Christ, is, obey God and he'll crush you to powder, and he still did it for us. So you see the infinity of his sufferings, we see in my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? But we see the infinity of his faithfulness in the my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? you see, with the infinity of his sufferings, the infinity of his faithfulness, we have an infinite redemption. Because here's someone living the faithful life we should have lived, and at the very same moment, dying the death that faithless people should die for us in our place. The most dramatic of all dramatic themes is the great substitution of the rescuer. the great substitution of the rescuer. What does a rescuer do? A rescuer is in safety, someone is in danger, and the rescuer gives up, rescuers give up their safety and go into danger so those in danger can have safety. And very often the ultimate sacrifice, the ultimate substitution, is the rescuers give up their lives so that those who are about to die get theirs back.

it is in all the most moving stories, whether they're true or not. There's the true stories. I mean, I'll never forget that man who kept diving back and back in to the icy Potomac River, and he brought back up, he saved one passenger after another passenger from that crashed airliner until finally he went down and didn't come up again. And you know, when they finally lifted his body with a crane, a lifeless body out of the water, he looked like he was on a cross. us? What did he do? He gave up his safety and went into danger. He gave up his life and went into death so that those in danger could have safety so those about to die could have life. And, of course, it's true of all the stories, even the most ancient stories, even the stories that aren't true. They move us because of this. Tolkien once said this is the essence of the most moving stories, that when things are in danger, some people lose them so others can keep them, When things are in danger, some people lose them, give them up so others can keep them. Well, here is the ultimate example of that. The ultimate substitute.

You know that great George Herbert poem, The Sacrifice, where Jesus is speaking from the cross, he's hanging on the tree.

And there's one stanza where he's speaking to the people and he's thinking about Adam and Eve. While ye who pass by behold and see, man stole the fruit, now I must climb the tree, a tree of life for all, but only me. Was ever grief like mine? The cross is a tree of life for everyone because it was a tree of death for him. That's the ultimate substitute, and that's what you have. The cry, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Infinite faithfulness, and infinite suffering so that you have an infinite redemption when we take hold of that, no matter who you are or what you've done, God takes you into his family.

Now, what does this mean? What does this mean? What does this cry, what does Psalm 22, what does the cross mean for us practically? Well, gosh, this is a sermon on the cross, so obviously we can go on for years and years, but let's not. Let's go on just for a few more minutes, and let me just suggest three radical, profound, practical implications of what Jesus Christ said on the cross for us in three ways. I want to look at how Jesus' cry affects your personal transformation, your experience of suffering, and the feeling sometimes that God abandons us. Your personal transformation, the experience of suffering, and the feeling that God sometimes abandons us. Okay, first, this is the key to real change. I know it's for me because the cry on the cross forces me to see that the God of the Bible, the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, is absolutely holy and absolutely loving at the same time. I can't, I'll try, to say more emphatically that your temperament, your psychology, your religious background, your church background, wherever you came from, Your culture, every culture, every temperament, every church, tends to basically see God as more holy than loving, or basically see God as more loving than holy, but he is both, and only because he's both, only when he's both, only when you grasp it, only when it really comes together in your life and really smacks you in the face, will it really change you. You see, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me, means he was so holy that Jesus had to die, but my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me, was so loving he was willing to die. In other words, this cry shows me the absolute holiness and absolute love of God at the same time. And that's the key to your transformation. How so? Well, follow and think with me for a minute. If you are of a conservative temperament or of a conservative ilk, you tend to think of God as basically holy and righteous. And you think, that if a person is saved, they are saved because they live a holy, moral, and righteous life.

But then when you think of your relationship with God, it doesn't move you. It doesn't fill you with joy and tears. It doesn't melt your heart. It doesn't galvanize you. It doesn't exhilarate you. You say, well, sure. Yeah, of course. I believe in God. I'm trying to live a good life. On the other hand, what if you were of a more liberal temperament? What if you're more liberal ilk, and you tend to think of God as mainly loving, mainly a God, you say, I believe in a God who just loves everyone and accepts everyone no matter how they live. You would say, therefore, that if a person is saved, they're saved because God just loves and forgives everyone no matter who they are, but if that's the case, and you think of your relationship with God, it doesn't move you, it doesn't fill you with tears, it doesn't shock you, it doesn't galvanize Sure, yeah, I believe in God and I have a relationship with God. He loves me. He loves everybody. The move you doesn't change you. I remember after worship service once years ago, a woman came up to me afterwards and told me how narrow she thought my whole sermon was. And I'm not encouraging anybody, by the way.

If you think my sermon is very narrow, tell somebody next to you, okay? See what they say. And I said, why? she said, well, because this whole idea that you have to believe Jesus died. I believe in a God of pure love who loves everybody no matter what, just loves everyone. And I guess I was in a bad mood that day because I said to her, let me ask you a question. What did it cost your God to love you? She said, I guess nothing. And here you have it. A loving God who's not holy isn't as loving as

a holy God who's not loving isn't actually as holy as the biblical God. You know why? You see, the moralistic God of some people who say you have to be good, the biblical God just trying your best isn't enough. The relativistic God of people say, oh, God just loves everyone. But that's not as loving as the God who, because he was holy and loving, grace you see because he's loving there's free grace for us but because he's holy it was costly grace infinitely costly grace and when i just when i just hear oh god is holy and demanding that just i might you know out of fear i might listen to him it doesn't change me in my heart and if i hear oh god is very loving he accepts everybody well that's nice and that inspires me but that doesn't change me in my heart but when i know that i am the recipient of this kinds of costly grace. When I know Jesus Christ went to hell's heart for me and was loving and obedient for me there, that's what changes me. That's tears. That's amazement. That's exhilaration. That's galvanizing. You know why it changes? Because at the very same time, on the one hand, it humbles me out of my pride and self-centeredness, and it affirms me out of my inferiority and self-pity at the same time. It makes me hate my sins because it led to his death, but it forbids me to hate myself because he did it for me to make me free.

There's nothing that changes you like an understanding of a God who's absolutely holy and absolutely loving at once. It will just pull you out of every psychological category there is. There's no inferiority complexes, there's no superiority complexes, you're off the map, you're off the scale,

understanding the cry of Jesus on the cross is the key to personal transformation. Secondly, understanding the cry of Jesus Christ on the cross gives us two terrific resources for suffering. Now, I know this year we've talked a lot about suffering in the sermons, but this cry on the cross gives us two amazing resources for suffering. If you're in trouble right now, if you're in pain right now, take all these, the first is the cry of Jesus on the cross Psalm 22 gives us the greatest possible companion for our suffering

do you know the thing you mainly need in suffering is not answers you can make it without answers what do I mean by that? when you suffer you have questions why is this happening to me? why does this have to happen? suffer, you have lots of questions, but you know, you can make it without questions, but you can't make it out. You can't make it without companionship. You can't make it if you have to suffer alone. You can't make it without friendship. You can't make it without companionship, and Christianity is the only religion on the face of the earth that says God is your companion in suffering, that God has suffered, that God does suffer. David Watson, who was a Christian leader died of cancer when he wrote this. Someone once said to me, there cannot be a God of love, because if there was and he looked upon the world, his heart would break, but the gospel points to the cross and says, it did break.

Someone once said to me, it's God who made the world, it's he who should bear the load, the gospel points to the cross and says, he did bear the load. god weats with those who weep he feels our pain and enters into our sorrows with his compassionate love a man dying of cancer so the first thing you get is the greatest possible companion in suffering but the second thing you get is the greatest possible future this cry gives us the greatest possible future for our suffering yeah the worst thing about being in darkness is to think that there's no light at the end of the tunnel. But when Jesus Christ cried out in the midst of his darkness, there was a deliverance. The suffering of Jesus Christ means that our suffering is a future. What do I mean by that? Well, Michael Green wrote this. He says, Jesus' cry on the cross means for Christians there is a future for suffering. Suffering ultimately is not blind, wanton, and senseless. It has a purpose. Look what Jesus' suffering produced. Look what benefits flowed from the awesome suffering gladly endured. It is the same with Jesus' followers. Mystery though it is, much flows from it when it is gladly endured. Character is formed by it. Art and creativity is stimulated by it. Compassion and care is evoked by it. Royalty comes from it. Jesus was regal on the cross in his suffering. And in the end, the greatest mystery of all, 2 Corinthians 4.17, that reads, this affliction, which is only for a moment, is preparing for us an eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison. This is a simple fact that there's a future to your suffering. You're suffering. You don't just stay in suffering. If you embrace Jesus Christ, his substitutionary paradigm comes into your own life. One of the things that I've noticed, for example, over the years, and my wife and I have talked about this recently, is when you're in the midst of pain, you always say, oh my gosh, I mean, and you never want it back, and you don't understand it, and it just seems like it's too much to bear. But whatever you lose shows up again somewhere else in a different way, and it's redemptive. You know, I mean, sorry for this being self-referential, but everything that I've ever suffered personally, everything that I've ever lost, it's shown up again in my preaching and pastoring. It's made me a vastly better preacher or pastor than I ever would have been if I'd had all the easy places where I had hard places. There's something about Jesus. You put him in the center of your life, and then as his suffering has a future, it's redemption. Your suffering will have a future, it's redemption. Things will flow from it. I can personally vouch for it. Lastly, this cry also gives us some comfort and some resources when you feel God's abandoned you. See, here's Jesus saying, you have forsaken me. Have you never felt that way? Of course you have. We're constantly feeling like God's forsaken us. God's abandoned us. You know, Martin Luther said this about Psalm 22. He said, he said, this Psalm, Psalm 22, helped me out of difficulties from which no king or ruler could have ever freed me. And I'm not totally sure what he meant by that, but I think I know because I know Martin Luther. And Martin Luther was a melancholic. He was a person who, because of his temperament, maybe because of his physiology, he had trouble holding on to radiant feelings. He had trouble holding on to positive emotions. He had trouble feeling God's presence. And there's that are like that. We have trouble feeling God's presence, and very often, we're always feeling he abandons us because of timing, you know? Abraham got Isaac, but not in his timing, in God's timing, and God's timing is almost never our timing, and that's another reason why we feel abandoned, so we're always feeling forsaken, we're always feeling abandoned, but look, you know what this tells us? Jesus Christ was truly deserted by God so that you are only ever apparently deserted by God. He got the abandonment we deserve, and therefore God will never truly abandon you at all. You feel abandoned because your feelings aren't reliable, because your physiology, because of your sense of timing, you may feel abandoned, but you're not abandoned because Jesus was abandoned and got the abandonment you should have gotten. Jesus was truly deserted, so you are only ever apparently so, and look, Jesus Christ, truly deserted,

So when you are only apparently feeling deserted by God, why can't you just keep loving him? Why can't you just hold on, obey, read your Bible, pray, come to church, help somebody else, do the next thing, and he'll be back in your feelings because he's never left you objectively. Jesus Christ was deserted really so that you would only be deserted apparently. Apparently, his love in time past forbids me to think. He'll leave me at last in troubles to sink. By prayer, let me wrestle. Then he will perform with Christ in the vessel. I smile at the storm. Let us pray. Thank you, Father, for showing us through this psalm who Jesus is. We are that posterity. We are those generations who now, centuries later, praise you for what you've done. When you delivered Jesus Christ from death through the resurrection, it is now truly the case that there are hundreds of millions of people in all nations of the earth who now praise your name and worship you. Nothing else could have done it. What else could have done it? But you did it through him. generations and we are part of those different people groups. There are a couple dozen families of nations that are actually represented in this very room, and we are praising you because you have done it. You delivered Jesus, and by it you delivered us. We thank you, Father, for what Jesus did for us on the cross, and we ask that you would help us to apply it to our lives in the ways we've discussed today. We pray it in Jesus' name. Amen.
