There was an earthquake in the area and it's the only city that did not ask Rome for money to help rebuild itself. It was a banking center, it was a financial center, it was Wall Street of Turkey, of Asia Minor. It also was a medical center. It had a certain kind of salve that was reputedly very good for dealing with eye ailments. It also was a clothing center, and it was especially renowned all over the Mediterranean world for making wonderful black wool clothing, black wool. And the people were prosperous, and the people were powerful. Jesus' denunciation of this church is the most severe. He says nothing good about it. You notice, if you look carefully, you'll see in most of all the other letters, he says, I see this about you, and this is great, and this is great, and this is great, to change. With Laodicea, he says nothing like that. Instead, he comes right on out. He says, I know your deeds. You're neither hot nor cold. I wish you were one or the other. So I spew you out of my mouth. Now, listen, this is a very severe thing. Here's the risen Christ. Here's the cosmic Christ. Remember what he looks like? Eyes of penetrating fire, a voice greater than and that of many waters. He's not standing in front of you and saying, you are grieving me. That would be terrible. He's not even saying, you are angering me, which would be even worse. You know what he's saying? You nauseate me. I'm about to vomit because of what I see in you. It's pretty strong stuff. What is it that elicits, what is it that evokes this kind of gut reaction? I know, it's a little bit, I don't know, it's a little bit brave to talk about the cosmic Christ having a gut reaction, having a visceral reaction, having a nausea. But that's exactly what he says. It's his illustration. It's his metaphor, not ours. And so what is it? What is it? What it is, is lukewarmness. alright now let me just take from this a couple of principles the first principle is that the early church was characterized by a zeal you notice I if you were watching what I was reading the new international version which is printed out in your bulletin says in verse 19 those whom I love I rebuke and discipline so be earnest and repent. The word there, I always liked it better when it was translated zealous. It means to be, you know what it means? Earnestness, zealousness. Bishop J.C. Ryle, Archbishop of Liverpool, an Anglican British bishop back in the end of the 19th century put it this way, the definition of zeal in this text is to be a person of one thing a zealous Christian is someone who sees only one thing cares for only one thing, lives for only one thing is swallowed up by only one thing gets pleasure and joy from only one thing a zealous Christian does not care whether he lives or dies whether he is healthy or sick whether he was rich or poor, whether he was popular or offensive, whether he gets blame or gets praise, whether he gets honor or shame, none of these things really matter. He only cares about one thing, to bring joy to the heart of his Savior, to honor his Savior, to please his Savior, to bring joy to the heart of the one who gave himself. Now, there was a certain... Zeal means a wholeheartedness. It means full throttle. It means sixth gear. and you only had four. It means all out. And the scripture tells us here that Jesus does not look at a half-zealous or a non-zealous Christian and say, well, this isn't optimal. Jesus says, you nauseate me. There's another way to put it. This is very strong. He doesn't say, oh, you non-zealous Christians, you know, you really need to, you know, kick it up a notch or two. The statement he makes is one of covenant cursing. He's doing the covenant curse, and that means that a lukewarm Christian is likely not a Christian at all. At least the people that he's talking to, he is trying to say, you have no idea how much you turn my stomach. There was a zeal, there was an energy about the early Christians that is very, very, very interesting. Now,

zeal that Jesus not only thinks is optimal, but is commanded in a Christian. Zeal. That's not very popular today. Not at all. The New Rep... you know, I was reading the New Republic, and it calls the 90s the non-ideological 90s. The New Republic says, we're not for the left anymore, we're not for the right, we're not for any kind of extremism, we're not for anything that's radical. We've decided all those old things don't work. We become cynical. We become moderate. We become centrist. We become middle of the road. And as a result, talking about zeal doesn't go down very well, especially when you think of fanatics. Oh, people are so worried about being fanatics. You know what a fanatic is? Most people know what a fanatic is, and even I agree with what a fanatic is. A fanatic is someone who's rude. A fanatic is somebody who's insensitive. A fanatic is someone who is counterproductive because he or she tries to get his or her opinion across in the most offensive possible ways and always does the opposite of what is intended. Fanatics are cruel. Fanatics are bigoted. Fanatics are proud and so forth. That's a fanatic. Now, most people think that fanaticism is a function of the degree of commitment to Christ. a fanatical Christian, their fanaticism is a function of the degree of commitment to Christ. Not so. See, many people say to a fanatic, chill out. Let's be more moderate. Jesus is nice. You've had a religious experience. How wonderful. But let's not overdo it. And many people think that the cure for fanaticism is to pull down the zeal. Pull down the zeal. Be more moderate. Not at all. you're doing the wrong thing. A fanatic is somebody who is fanatically sold out for truth, like Jesus. Fanatically wants to see the kingdom of God move forward, like Jesus. The problem with a fanatic is the reason he or she is so offensive, it's not that they're too fanatical. The problem is they're not fanatical enough. They're fanatically like their Lord in some ways, but not in most ways. They're not fanatically sensitive, like Jesus. They're not fanatically loving. They're not fanatically self-sacrificing. They're not fanatically wise. You know what it says about Jesus in the book of Matthew? A bruised reed he will not break, and a smoking flax he will not quench till he brings forth judgment to victory. What does that mean? Yeah, it means, look at the diamond cutter. The diamond cutter is being fanatical, fanatically careful. You never see a diamond cutter coming up the diamond like this. I got it. No. The diamond cutter is fanatical, though. The diamond cutter is extreme. The diamond cutter is radical. Fanatically careful. Look, if you see a person that you consider fanatical, offensive, rude, and so forth, that is not a function of being too zealous for Christ. It's a function of being not zealous enough. They're not fully orbed in their zealousness. Do you see that? They're not totally sold out. They really aren't. If you're around somebody who's totally sold out, they make you feel like a million dollars. They listen to you. They care about you. They don't, they, They're like Jesus. The prostitutes liked him. The children liked him. The zeal of the early Christians was the secret of their success. And the zeal was not optimum. It wasn't optional, I mean. And it wasn't optimal, meaning it's a nice thing to have, but, you know, not necessary. It wasn't optional. Optional. Recently, and I'll just, before moving on, I mean, this is the first point. Zeal. Full-throated, fully-orbed fanaticism. Absolute, full-throttle commitment. Putting Christ first in every area of life, and nothing even second, or even third, or even fourth, that far up. Was not just an option, but it was Christianity. Christianity. And Jesus says, when I don't see it in you, you turn my stomach. That's awfully strong. And just before moving on to the next point, I was recently reading an extremely interesting, there we go, there's a book that I had to read years ago that I recently got out again. Kenneth Scott Latteret was a professor of history at Yale for years and years, very, very well-regarded scholar, an eminent scholar in the first part of the 20th century. And he wrote a seven-volume series called A History of the Expansion of Christianity, which I think, though it's like reading an encyclopedia, it's so huge, I think is required reading for anybody who wants to go into ministry. Serious and great stuff. Now, in one of the books, I pulled this out, and he says one of the most important questions that a historian can answer is this. Why is it that Christianity won in the Roman Empire? Let me read it to you. And he says, this is something every historian has to figure out and answer as best he or she can. Why, among all the religions and philosophies competing in the Greco-Roman world, why, in spite of more severe opposition encountered than any other religion, why did Christianity win? What accounts for the fact that an obscure Jewish sect with no influential backing in high places not only forced the most powerful state in the history of the world to come to terms with it, but even was able to outlive and survive the complete destruction of the very civilization and government that sought to destroy it? Why did Christianity win? And Latteret goes and says, over the years historians have had to wrestle with it. Why? There were literally hundreds of philosophies and religions vying in the Roman world. Why is it that Christianity took it over? Why did it beat everything else? And Latteret says there's been four answers given throughout history by historians, and he tries to show that all the answers are superficial. There must be an answer underneath the other answers. Listen. He says the first answer is that Roman civilization was crumbling because of the loss of an absolute truth. And Christianity provided it. Now, just briefly, one of the interesting things is, you know, most cultures, in most cultures, if, unless they be, most cultures, you're raised in a culture and you're taught a religion and you're taught a set of values and you don't question it. You know what's right and wrong, huh? because your parents told you, and everybody else around you believes it. It's just as if, well, this is just the way it is. And so in many places in the world, people are raised having an understanding of right and wrong, having an understanding of absolute truth, and there's great stability in the society as a result. But what happened in Rome, and it was the first time it ever happened, it's happening now again, there was a universal state that united all kinds of cultures under one government. Cultures that had always stayed away from each other were now suddenly up against each other. They were intermingling, and especially in the cities. And what happens is, if all of your life you've been taught that this is right or wrong, say, sexually, or this is right or wrong when it comes to sex roles, or this is right and wrong when it comes to integrity and ethics and use of money, and this is right and wrong, you've been taught that, and everybody else around you believes that, so you never question it. Then there's stability in society. But when you suddenly are thrown in with people that have radically different views, up in the air. That happens now in the big cities. But for the first time in the history of the world, it was happening in Rome and in the Roman cities. Because you see, when you come into a city where there's a marketplace where everybody says, this is right, this is right, this is right, you actually for the first time have to think for yourself. You can even see it here. You know, if you're raised in a little Catholic community, for example, on the outskirts of Chicago or in some little town, everybody around you believes the same things. You're just taught certain things and it's, That's just the way it is. But you move into the city, and everybody has different views, and you've got to think for yourself. And you suddenly say, what is right? What is wrong? And in the Roman world, there was a loss of the idea of morality and truth, and as a result, people were not being nice to each other. People were being barbaric to each other. Crime was on the increase. Families broke down. People couldn't live together. And everybody says, how are we going to get people to live decent lives again? What is true? It's just like today. And Christianity, the historian said, came up and said, this is the truth, and people were so starved for truth that everybody flocked to it. Latteret says, there's a problem with this one. All the religions were doing the same thing. Why was it that Christianity was the one that the most people decided really had the truth? And so Latteret says, that's an interesting historical answer, but it doesn't really get at what must be. all the religions were saying this is the truth. Why Christianity then? Why did it win? The second basic answer, why did Christianity win in the Roman Empire, was its inclusiveness. Latteret says, historians have noted something very interesting. Most philosophies were for the educated and the poor people couldn't understand them, but Christianity was wonderfully simple enough for the poor and yet answered the philosophical questions of the intellectuals. It included the educated and the uneducated. Secondly, under inclusiveness, Latteret says historians have noted that most religions were completely oriented toward males. But in the very earliest part of the Christian history, women were given ministry positions alongside of men. In fact, just yesterday I was reading an example of this. This is Pliny, who was the governor of Bithynia back in like 98 AD. when the last apostle hadn't even died yet, wrote Trajan and said, you know, I'm trying to find out more about the Christians, and I've just tortured two maidservants who are deaconesses in their local church to find out more about their beliefs. Deaconesses, see? Most of the religions ignored women, wouldn't even let women into the center court, you know, let the men come on into the temple and let the women stay outside. And here are women with ministry positions. It was men and women. It was educated and uneducated. Not only that, it was rich and poor. And therefore, because Christianity was so inclusive, it won. But Latter-day Saints says, no, wait a minute, that doesn't really get at it. That doesn't really get at it. That can't be. Why was Christianity so inclusive? There had never been a religion that inclusive before. There had never been a religion that brought slaves and rulers together. There had never that brought male and female together like that. There'd never been a religion like that. So Latteret says, sure, it's easy to say it won because it offered people truth, but why was this the one that convinced most of the people? It's okay to say it was inclusive, but why is this the religion that developed that kind of inclusiveness when no other one did? The third answer for why Christianity came up in the Roman Empire

was its flexibility yet, if I get it down right, flexibility, and yet it's in transience. Now, what I mean by that is Christians would not ever worship the emperor. Remember I told you Pliny had written Trajan, and he said, I'm trying to find out more about these Christians and their beliefs and all that. Here we go. Listen to this. In the letter, we have this letter to Trajan. He says, I received an unsigned paper presenting names of many people alleged to be Christians, but they all denied it. I brought them into my presence and I had to let them go because at my command they prayed to the gods, they made supplication with incense and wine to your statue, Emperor Trajan, and they cursed Christ. None of these things, it is said, those who are really Christians can ever, ever be made to do. Sort of makes you look at your own heart, doesn't it? Christians. They dedicated to your statue, Emperor Trajan, and they worshipped other gods right in front of me. I let them go because it is said those who are really Christians can never, ever be made to do. There was an intransience about Christians. Why? Eastern religions believed that God was in everything, and so they were syncretistic. That means they said, well, you know, you might have your religion, you might have your religion. There's many gods, and everybody has their own But because Christianity taught that Jesus Christ was the great creator who had become a human being, he was therefore the unique image of God. And they would not compromise that. The deity of Christ, the preeminence of Christ, they wouldn't. And yet, on the other hand, Christians were tremendously flexible. One of the reasons why the Jewish religion did not, and this is what Latteret says, says, the Jewish religion did not spread as rapidly, was they insisted that everybody be culturally Jewish. If you wanted to be Jewish, you had to start to dress Jewish, and you had to eat Jewish, and you had to take all the customs up. But Christianity didn't do that. Christianity was amazingly flexible on all sorts of things, but absolutely intransigent on the central things. It had this incredible balance. And the historians say that's one of the reasons why it must have won. But Latteret says, no, that doesn't get at it. Why did Christianity have this amazing balance that none of the other religions did? Lastly, this is very interesting. Historians say, and this is a historical fact, the reason that Christianity won in the Roman Empire was the Romans were so upset with how barbaric people were getting as the notion of truth began to break down. They were tremendously upset, and they said, how can we get people to be compassionate? How can we get people to be honest? How can we get people to start to be decent with each other? How can we get people to start being generous? And Latterette says, all the historians realize that even though you had tons of religions and philosophies competing in the marketplace, place, the Christians produced the most changed lives. And that's the reason they won. This is a quote from the historian. He says, the experience of thoroughgoing moral and spiritual renewal was probably shared by a minority of those in the churches, but enough of them had it to give a unique tone to Christian communities. Thousands of poor and underprivileged persons were supported by sacrificial life giving of the Christians. Thousands of Christians found power to forsake evil and lead decent lives, and their neighbors saw it. But Latteret says, that's not good enough. What a great historian. He says, people say, well, they had the truth. People said they were so inclusive. People said they were the most balanced. People said they produced the most changed lives. But Latteret says, wait a minute, that doesn't get at it. why did Christianity produce the most changed lives? Why did Christianity have this inclusiveness that had never been seen before in a religion? Why did Christianity convince people that they had the truth? Do you see? It's great historiography. Lateran says, we have to decide, we have to try to come to conclusions, why did Christianity win and completely sweep the Greco-Roman world? And he says, all the answers are too superficial. possible one. Now listen carefully. Finally, he says, the more one examines the factors that account for the extraordinary victory of Christianity in the Greco-Roman world, the more one is driven to search for a cause that underlies them all. It is clear that at the very beginning of Christianity, there must have occurred a vast release of energy, unequaled in the history of our race. Without admitting this, the future course of the faith is absolutely inexplicable. Something happened to the men who associated with Jesus. Now, what was that? Listen to this. That burst of energy was ascribed by the early disciples to the founder of their faith, the meeting of the founder of their faith. But listen, he says, why this occurred may lie outside the realms in which historians are supposed to move. Yeah, what's he saying? He's saying, I love it. He's saying there has to be a reason under the reason. He says, in the beginning, there must have been a vast release of energy. There is no way to explain all these things. The moral changes, the moral power of the early Christians, the ability to handle courage, the ability to handle persecution. One of the things Latteret points out is so amazing. He says every persecuted group of people that have ever been hounded and exterminated like the Christians were, it was illegal to be a Christian under Trajan. Every group of people that have ever been exterminated went into guerrilla warfare and became embittered and spent all their lives in vengeance. You see that. Look at it in Northern Ireland. Look at it in Lebanon. You see it everywhere. And Latteret says something just amazing about it. He says,

that God will forgive you because you really don't know what you're doing. This has never been seen before. What is it? Says Latteret. What was it? There was a vast release of energy in the beginning. He says, I'm a historian. I can't say it was the resurrection. I can't say it was a miracle. That's not my job. All I can tell you is that there was an unparalleled, in the history of our race, explosion of energy in the beginning that's the only way to account for the fact that these early Christians had this kind of power. What is it? It's zeal. anybody who actually came to grips with the message of Christianity who actually met the risen Lord in person

became possessed

with a fully-orbed fanaticism, remember? not wild-eyed unbalanced, but a fully-orbed fanaticism they were possessed, they wanted to be like Jesus they wanted to please their Jesus. And Jesus says, anything less than that nauseates me. Think about it. Historically, that's exactly what these early Christians must have been like. There's no other way to deal. There's no other way to explain them. Now look at yourself. What does Jesus think of you? I'm not saying you're not Christians if you don't see the zeal in your life I'm telling you, you're in a serious condition

now, lastly, look carefully he says, I wish you were hot or I wish you were cold because you're neither hot nor cold, I spew you out of my mouth now what's very interesting there, that's an amazing statement Jesus, listen, let me get this straight with you Jesus does not want you to be cold to be cold means to be cold to him he doesn't want you to be cold but you know what he's saying he is saying in some ways it's more spiritually dangerous to be lukewarm than to be cold let me tell you there's three kinds of people there's the people who are sold out for Christ there's the people who utterly reject and are hostile to Christ and then there's people who are sort of religious and they believe in Jesus and they come to church but there's nothing remarkable about their lives at all now listen to me The hot and the cold have both come to grips with the claims of Christ. You see, the hostile person says, I see what Christianity claims. It claims that God himself became a human being and died on the cross, which means, if that's true, it changes everything. Everything. Remember the misfit in Flannery O'Connor, shooting the grandmother in the chest and saying, the trouble with Jesus is he upset everything. if he's real, then there's nothing to do but follow him and serve him. But if he's not real, there's nothing to do, nothing has any meaning, there's nothing to do but just to kill people and do some meanness. You see, the person who's cold understands that. If Jesus is who he said he is, you've got to sell everything out. It says in Romans 12, make yourself a living sacrifice to him, which is your reasonable service. Don't you see? If you have not been sold out to him and made him preeminent, you look at the way in which you spend your money and you say, I've got to put him first. You look at the way in which you're using your sexuality and you say, I've got to put him first. You look at the way in which you're spending your time, I've got to put him first. You look at your prayer life, I've got to put him first. You look at the way in which you associate with people, I've got to put him first. First, that's the only reasonable way to respond to him. This is, a living sacrifice is your reasonable service. How can you come to grips with someone who has given himself utterly for you without you giving yourself utterly to him? To do anything less is, it's not only an offense to the moral sense, it's a crucifixion of the intelligence, it's as stupid as it is wicked. And there is no other way to respond. There's no moderate way to respond. pond. The cold person understands that. The cold person says, I reject such claims. I don't give that kind of freeminence to anybody. I'm my own. And so you see, the cold person has come to grips with the magnitude of the claims of Christ. And the hot person has too. See, the person who really rejects Christianity and says, I have nothing to do with it, and the person who really completely centers his or her life in Jesus has also come to grips with the magnitude of the claims. You're not your own. You're bought with a price. If he died for you, you're not your own. It's one or the other. And the only person who has not come to grips with the gospel, the hot person and the cold person to some degree have. It's the person in the middle that has not. Jesus says, I can't live with a person like that. You're in a more spiritually dangerous position than the cold person. At least the cold person has some idea about what I really have claimed and what I really said. A cold person might have a real chance of a complete revival and a complete in-breaking of the Spirit of God, but you, you come and you sit and you say you're a Christian and you sit there and you say you believe and you pray your prayers generally only when you're in trouble. And you say you believe in the ethical teachings of Jesus, but you don't want to go overboard. You look at yourself. Do you really understand what I've done for you? Do you really understand the gospel at all? There was a vast release of energy that turned early Christians into zealous, earnest people who turned the world upside down. When will we see their like again. No reason why not now. But you're going to have to come to grips with what this means. If you have cooled off, you better take a look at yourself. Doesn't mean you're not a Christian. It means you've actually forgotten the very basis of the Christian faith. You've forgotten the gospel itself. You've forgotten that he died for you. You forgot who he is and what he's done. I mean, you've forgotten everything that's basic. basic. But Jesus, there's a hope here. He says, those whom I love, I chasten and repent. Do you feel bad about what I'm saying to you tonight? Do you feel terrible? Are you scared? That's a wonderful sign. You couldn't be scared unless he was working in your heart. You couldn't be upset unless there was life in you. You couldn't be convicted unless he was rebuking you. It's not me. If you're feeling bad tonight, it's a hot night and you can figure me to see if in your heart there is no love for Christ. If you're not a Christian, then you can easily write off what I'm saying. It's a it's a slightly more articulation of the message that you think is fanatical and bad for New York City. But if you feel convicted. That you better get on the stick. If you suddenly realize that you're in the middle and Jesus wants you hot, not lukewarm. if you're feeling guilty, if you're feeling convicted ah, that means he's rebuking you because he says those whom I love I rebuke

be zealous and repent

he who has an ear

let him hear what the spirit says to the churches let's pray now Father, we ask that you would truly heal us. If we see what your son has done for us, and we see what your son is to us, if we come back to grips with the most reasonable response to all that, will be to become zealous for you, to forsake our lukewarmness, to forsake our being in the middle. Thank you, oh Lord God. that you have taught us that when we feel your rebuke, it's because you love us. I pray that there'll be some people here tonight that will give themselves to you in ways they never have before, re-give themselves to you in ways they used to. I pray that there'll be some renewals of covenants tonight. I pray that there'll be some great renewals of commitment tonight. I pray that people who had cooled off would get hot again. I pray that some people who are very cold might have the ice over their heart shattered by the zeal of the Lord. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's receive our offering. Keep your spiritual focus, as I always say. Concentrate on what Jesus is saying to you, not what I'm saying to you, but what you're hearing from the Lord tonight. And when we're done with the offering, after you've reflected, we'll close with our final song.
