We're going to read just verses 19 to 22. It's a passage we've been looking at for a while. Ephesians 2, verses 19 through 22. Consequently, you are no longer foreigners and aliens, but fellow citizens with God's people and members of God's household, built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets with Christ Jesus himself as the chief cornerstone. own. In him the whole building is joined together and rises to become a holy temple in the Lord. And in him you too are being built together to become a dwelling in which God lives by his spirit. The word of the Lord. We're looking at what this passage in Ephesians 2 tells us about the church of Jesus Christ. And this week and next week, we're continuing to look at this passage. Tonight, we're going to look at what it means to be citizens of the kingdom. A few years ago, more than a few, the Baltimore Orioles had a third baseman named Brooks Robinson. The Baltimore Orioles are a baseball team in the major leagues, and Robinson was a good hitter. He was an okay hitter, but he was an incredible fielder. He was incredible at third base. and at one point when he was at the peak of his career somebody made this comment about him they said it's almost as if this guy came down from a higher league and he's just tuning up and getting ready to go back except of course we know there is no higher league so it was a tremendous compliment how would you like to do everything in your life your work your play your relationships in such a way that people looked at you and said, this person looks like they come down from a higher plane, a higher league, and they're just tuning up to go back. The Bible tells us that's what should be true of Christians. That's what can be true of Christians. And it's all because of this verse and this particular statement, this truth. You are no longer foreigners and aliens, but fellow citizens with God's people. Philippians 3.20 says the same thing, only in a slightly different way. Your citizenship is in heaven. And the word citizenship here is a good little Greek word, polytuma, from which we get our word politics. Your politics are in heaven. Your way of living with people, your way of conducting yourself in the world, should have the aroma of a higher league. A higher plane. From heaven itself. And that's what it's saying. What difference would it make if that's true of a group of people? What difference does it make if a certain group of people are citizens of heaven? What difference does it make if that group of people live out their citizenship? Grasp it and live it out. What difference does it make? All the difference in the world. It'll mean the difference of whether or not there will be in the private life and creativity and excellence in your public life, your professional life. I mean that. To get the hang of it, imagine this. Imagine you're in some totalitarian country and you're there as a U.S. citizen. What condition are you in? On the one hand, you adapt. You learn the language of the country, right? You observe its customs. Of course you adapt. But at another other level, at the most important level, you're a U.S. citizen and the duties and the rights that you enjoy are those of a U.S. citizen. And that country and that government, as totalitarian as it is, though you have to give it respect and though it can harm you, you don't belong to it. And it really does not have the same rights over you that it has over its own citizens. The Bible says that is what it means to be a Christian in the world. The Bible says in Colossians 1.13 that the moment you receive Christ as Savior, your citizenship is transferred, it says, into the kingdom of his dear son. And at that moment, you have a whole new set of duties and rights, a whole new way of conducting yourself with other people, a whole new way of relating to the world. Your politics are completely changed. That's what it says. A whole new way of dealing with the world. Malcolm Muggeridge, who is a man who became a Christian later in life, who is a pretty well-known writer and critic in London, he says this. After he became a Christian, he says, As Christians we know that here we have no continuing city, that crowns will eventually roll in the dust, and every earthly kingdom must sometimes flounder, men did not crown and cannot dethrone, and we are citizens of a city of God that they did not build and cannot destroy. Now listen, what if we, what if any group of Christians, what if any group of people lived as if this was true, reminded themselves of it every day, worked out the implications in a consistent and diligent way in every area of their life, what would we be like? We'd be the most compelling. That's the word I like to use. We'd be the most compelling community of all the many communities of humanity. Now, if we want to do that, let's just try to understand a little bit more about what this is teaching. What does it mean to be citizens? What is this truth? Now, this verse 19 gives us this truth both negatively and positively. First it tells us what we're not anymore. And then it tells us what we are. It says you're no longer what? Strangers and aliens. You are no longer foreigners. My translation here. You are no longer foreigners and aliens, but fellow citizens with God's people. Let's look at it negatively first and then positively. You are no longer foreigners and aliens. Now, the word foreigners, zinoy, from which we get our word xenophobia, which means a hatred of refugees and people of other races. But a zinoy literally means a stranger. It means a person who doesn't fit. A person who is set down and his surroundings are completely unfamiliar. He doesn't know the language. He doesn't know the culture. He doesn't know the customs. He's disoriented. Everything is unfamiliar. he feels cut off and isolated he just doesn't fit now what's intriguing here is the Bible says that if you're not a Christian that is your condition in the world it doesn't say you're out there having a good time before you become a Christian look it says consequently you are no longer foreigners and aliens no longer Colossians 1.13 says out of the kingdom of darkness into the kingdom of his dear son. Here we have Ephesians 2.19 saying, you are in a state of alienation, of strangeness. The point is that if you are not in touch with the Creator, if you are living a life of disobedience, if you are not living a life of faith in Jesus Christ, the condition you are in is one of fragmentation, of incoherence, of isolation, of being in pieces versus being whole and coherent and unified and free. Now, the Bible teaches this everywhere. It's not that before you become a Christian, you're in a great state and then you get into a kind of, let's get down to business, and before you're having a lot of fun. People over the years have said, I love to, to me, I love to become a Christian, but first I want to enjoy my life. And of course, at that point, what you have to say is, Whatever you think it means to become a Christian, you are so far off the wall that you can't do it when you want to. Here's a person who says to me, I know what it means to become a Christian, but I want to have fun for a while. And then I'll become a Christian. I can do it when I want to. Anybody who believes that doesn't know what it is. Doesn't know what Christianity is. And couldn't do it. You see. Couldn't possibly do it. No. The Bible says that before you are in the citizen of the kingdom, you're in a state of strangeness. You're in pieces. example. There's a word that comes up often in the New Testament. It's the word anxiety. Jesus says, have no anxiety about anything but consider. Paul says, don't be anxious for anything. The word anxiety in Greek, literally, it's marimnus. It means the state of being in pieces. Let me give you a definition of worry. Worry is being out of touch with the boss. Imagine, and I hope this is true for some of you. Imagine that you work in a place where you have a boss over a department. If that boss is not only a wise person, but let's just say he is also your best friend, your dearest friend, your closest confidant. Well, you're able to go about your job in a very relaxed way. Why? First of all, you're not afraid of messing up. You're not afraid of making one little mistake. You're not going about real worried or anxious. Not only that, if something awry in the department. If something happens that is very strange and confusing, you don't panic. You say, well, I figure I'll find out from him. I don't have to worry. I know that I'll learn about it. I know I'll get the inside scoop. I know that I'll be brought into it. I won't be marginalized. I won't be on the outside, you see. So you've got this peace about your job. You're in touch with a boss. What does it mean to be a Christian? What does it mean to be a citizen of the kingdom? On the one hand, it means that you are in touch with the person who's in charge of all of history. All circumstances. If you are not, on close speaking terms, if he and you are not in a position of being intimates, then you get worried about things. You don't know what's going on. You get scared. You get frightened. Because, you see, you're not sure. And you're in pieces. And that's what the word anxiety means. Worry and anxiety. Or put it another way, if you are living out of touch with God, you're a person... if you're living a disobedient life, then you're a person who's not obeying the owners... your own owner's manual. If you buy a machine, you get out the owner's manual, the person who built the machine tells you how to maintain it. And if you oil it with a certain kind of oil at certain intervals, the machine will hold together and stay coherent and be in one piece. But if you fail to do the maintenance that the designer who built the thing knows it needs, it will very soon go to pieces. It will fall apart. And essentially, what it means to be a believer is that you come and you submit to the owner's manual, which is the Word of God, the person who built you. This isn't busy work. This isn't the sort of thing my seventh grade algebra teacher used to give people to keep you off the street. Busy work. It's not what the Word of God is. somebody who has come in under the Word of God and submits to it wholly, and as a result finds that he or she fits into the world of this God. You feel like you fit, because when you do these things, you're doing things that you were built for. And when you don't, fragmentation, you feel like you're in pieces. There was a pastor, another Presbyterian minister, a man in my denomination that had a relationship with a young French scientist named Philippe some years ago. Philippe, though he was friendly with his pastor, was an atheist, had many talks, but was never convinced. At one point, Philippe fell in love with a woman named Francois, and they decided because of their careers that the worst thing, the worst possible thing they could possibly do for their careers would be to get married. And it was true. If they got married it would definitely ruin somebody's career. Or both. And so they sat down and reasoned it out. They said, listen. You know. We don't have to get married. Besides that. We don't have to stay together. We've got these hormonal needs. And. We're fulfilling each other. Right now. But. When. We go. To. Other places. We can. Find. Someone. ELSE. to fill those hormonal needs. And there's absolutely no reason why we should ruin our lives. Two years of emptiness and unhappiness, and they finally got back together, and they got married. And Philippe wrote this pastor this letter, which is, I think, very revealing and quite intriguing. And this is what he said. Remember, this man is not a believer at all. He says, quote, I don't know why it's so hard to live without a permanent commitment. Now, of course, the Bible explains that, but he can't figure it out. My scientific understanding of man is that we are the result of chance happenings in the universe. Our desires are the results of genes and instincts and hormones, so love is actually an illusion. But I never realized that my ideas had drained life of its joy. My lover Francois and I cannot live on the basis of these views, even though we're sure that they are correct. It's almost as if we don't understand who we are. He's a stranger, see, in the world that he believes in. He doesn't fit, you see. His own views are out of accord with who he really is. He's not following his owner's manual. He experiences fragmentation. He's in pieces, you see. And the Bible says when you become Christians, when you receive Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord, you are no longer strangers, no longer foreigners and aliens, but, now let's look at it positively, citizens, let me read this, you're citizens of the people of God, God's people, and members of his household. Now, the reason I think Paul brought up this idea of citizenship was because in the Roman world, individual cities were actually not just cities as we know them, but city-states. So a person who was a citizen in a particular city would be traveling around the Roman Empire and would continue to have the duties and the rights of a citizen of that city wherever he went or she went. So, for example, some of you might be familiar with this. Paul was a Roman citizen. When he was in Philippi, because he ran afoul of a bunch of people, they threw him into prison. Now, most people could just be thrown into prison by the local authorities, but if you're a Roman citizen, what was one of your rights? You had to, yes, you couldn't be thrown into prison without a trial. That was a right. And after he'd spent a night in prison, Paul explained this to the Philippian supervisors, and they were aghast. Why? Because, you see, he had rights that though he was outside of Rome, he had rights that were still intact. And that's what Paul's thinking about here. A Christian is somebody, though he doesn't live in heaven, has got the same rights and duties of a citizen of heaven. Now, what are those rights and duties? Unfortunately, there's an innumerable list, of them tonight. Just three. First, the right of appeal. The right of appeal. Now, by that I mean that a citizen has the right to go to the top if necessary. We already said that Paul had the right of appeal. Well, no, I didn't say that. Paul had the right, not just for a trial, but Paul as a Roman citizen had a right to appeal to the emperor. Other people what a tremendous right that was, what a tremendous privilege it was to be a Roman citizen and have the right to go to the emperor if you weren't happy with how some other authority or supervisor had treated you. If you're a Christian, you have the same right, only it's far greater than what Paul had. Take a look at Jesus again and again. Blind men approach him. Children approach him. And what do his followers say? The disciples are always saying, Get back. Cross is too important for such as you, the likes of you, you see. And what happens there is Jesus always is turning around and saying, cut it out. Or, put another way, suffer the little children to come unto me. Jesus is the kind of emperor that if you are his citizen, he is always interested in your case. And we read a passage earlier in Words of Encouragement, Romans 8. now there is no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. You know, what is that? That is the right of appeal. You better not take that seriously. You better not be like the French free thinker, his name was Baudelaire, that as he was dying, someone says, do you believe that God will forgive you? Though he lived a life of licentiousness and rebellion and unbelief, as he was dying, his last words were, God will forgive, that's his job. And the answer to that is no, any more than somebody from Zambia can appeal to George Bush for justice it's not George Bush's job to give justice to everybody

the fact is that right of appeal is a right of access that we talked about last week because of what Jesus Christ has done for you can go all the way into the central height for justice, for your case Jesus has done, he's opened the way right into the king. In the Old Testament, one of the great books, one of the best stories in the Old Testament, just a great story, is the history of Esther. And at one point, Esther has to go in to see the king of Persia, the emperor. And she knows that if she goes in, she could be put to death to approach the emperor. If he puts forth his scepter, if he stretches his scepter out, that shows he has favor on her, she can approach. If, on the other hand, he does not put his scepter out, she's put to death. And what does she say? Now, this is another sermon, and I'll get back to it someday. I guarantee you. She says, I'm going to do what I have to do, and if I perish, I perish. Yeah. I'm going to obey, and if I perish, I perish. You see? I have to obey. I don't have to live. now what happened is the scepter came out and that's a picture of what it means to be a Christian my dear friends if you're a citizen of the kingdom if you're a citizen of the king the scepter is always out always out and I just want you to know I want you to know some of you in this room who are afraid to go in because you say I know some things and God knows what those things are should he listen to me? If you're a citizen of the king, the scepter is always out. And that brings up a very important point at this spot. That is, this concept of citizenship tells you an awful lot about what it means to be a Christian. Christianity, bottom line, is a status, a standing. A legal standing. I once heard a person talk to a pastor about people in his church. And that pastor, at one point, the person was saying to the pastor, well, there's some people in your church that are Christians and converted and some people who are not. And the pastor went through the roof. And the pastor said this. And many, many pastors would say this. He said, don't you dare say that. These people out here, they're all trying their best. There are different degrees, you see, of Christians out there. Only Jesus Christ was a real Christian. Everybody else is on the way. So don't be so judgmental. sense, doesn't it? No. It's a complete repudiation of what this verse is saying. There's no degrees of citizenship. Huh? You either are a citizen or you're not. You either aren't a citizen and may be applying and then you become one. It happens at a moment, see. And you see, some of you might be in doubt about your approach to God for this very reason, because you don't understand the citizenship of the kingdom. You say, I know things that I've done. I wonder. You know, some days I feel like I'm doing pretty good at living according to God's standards, and other days I'm doing lousy. Another thing that really gets you kind of confused is that you see people who are not believers at all, who repudiate Christianity, who are living far more disciplined, well-controlled moral lives than you are. And you don't even want to go near God. You say, how could I do that? Friends, what makes a person an American? The color of his or her skin. The language he or she speaks. The fashion that he or she is wearing. What makes a person an American? None of those things. What makes a person... The race? Citizenship is what makes you an American. What makes you a Christian? The fact that today you've been better than yesterday. This is it. What makes you a Christian is, have you applied for citizenship? Was there ever a time in which you said, Lord, I know I'm an alien. I know I have no right to be accepted by you. But I no longer trust in my own efforts. But I trust in what Jesus Christ has done for me. Accept me for that. Accept me for that sake. Bring me into the kingdom. You applied for citizenship. And anybody who applies for citizenship like that. Who humbles him or herself like that. Gets citizenship. you see. That's what it is. You cross over the line. Appeal. Some of you will not approach God with your problems. Some of you don't feel like you can go near him. Why? Because there's a little voice that says, he hardly ever hears anyway when you ask him, and besides that, why should he? He hardly ever does anything when you ask him, besides that, why should he? There's only one answer to that kind of voice. There's only one. I don't know what you're saying. If you're saying to it, well, I'll try better tomorrow. Oh, gee. You yourself know that maybe you will do better tomorrow. But then what about Tuesday? The only answer to that kind of voice is, I'm a citizen. The right of appeal. A second. Besides the right of appeal, the second right that you've got as a citizen of the kingdom is the right of escort. The right of escort. Let me tell you about the know. Let me tell you about the War of Jenkins' Ear. Have any of you heard of the War of Jenkins' Ear? I hope not. 1739, when Britain was at the height of its naval power, a particular... You're laughing already. I haven't even told you this story. This is true. Honest. This is Sunday. I'm a preacher. We're in church. I wouldn't tell you a lie now. now. There was a lone British vessel that was attacked wrongfully by the Spaniards. And in the battle, the captain, his name was Captain Jenkins, in the battle, Captain Jenkins had his ear cut off by a sword. He saved the ear, and he put it in a bottle of liquor to preserve it, and he sailed back to England, and he went into Parliament, and he told everybody what happened, and he held up the ear. By the way, visual aids are very helpful in speaking. And I've been trying, I was trying to think of a good visual aid for tonight and I just couldn't come up with one. I'm sorry about that. But this, I mean, this was a corker. He put up his ear. Parliament declared war. Declared war on Spain. And it was called the War of Jenkins' Ear. Now, on the one hand, wouldn't you say that a one particular human being is not worth going to war for. And from one perspective, yes. Captain Jenks, as one particular human being, in fact, just his ear, is not a good enough reason to go to war. But Captain Jenks, as a citizen of the British Empire, is enough reason to go to war. Why? Because, you see, each citizen represents the crown, or better yet, an attack on a British citizen represents an attack on the crown. and all the might of the British Empire escorted that one citizen, Captain Jenks, back to the scene of the crime. Now, friends, if you're a citizen of the kingdom, you have all the power of the kingdom escorting you through your life. You do. The kingdom is power. And that's another sermon, too. 2 Corinthians 10 says we fight with weapons. They're not earthly weapons. They're not actual Uzis, you see. They're not actual swords. They are spiritual weapons. And let me just give you a couple. Just a couple. First of all, you have got kingdom power against your own internal weaknesses. Your sins. Don't you know that you have habits, fears, drives, desires that have been ripping you up for years? That have been holding you back for years? What are you going to do about them? Are you going to give up? You've got kingdom power. which is alive and active and which can deal with those things. You've got the Spirit of God. And if you don't know that, and if you've given up on yourself, you're not thinking like a citizen, you're thinking like a slave. Let me give you an illustration that is worth repeating, and I will, and draw it out even more later on. Imagine a person who had been a slave all of his life in the south of the United States up until the Civil War. Every day he used to come into a town and he would walk up and there would be men that would come and laugh at him and jeer at him and say, get me a drink of water and order him around. And he had to because if he didn't, they could beat him within an inch of his life and it was perfectly legal. And then one day, Abraham Lincoln signs the Emancipation Proclamation and that person is now a citizen. The next day, he walks into town. The same guys are there yelling and screaming and telling him to do all kinds of things. Only this time, you see, he knows that if he doesn't do what he should, what they tell him to do, he's a citizen. And though they could still make trouble for him, he can make trouble for them. Now, it's not easy after 40 years of being a slave on one day when you're told you're now a citizen to suddenly start acting like a citizen. Probably what the guy will do is continue to act like a slave. That's natural. He's still a citizen, but he's acting like a slave. That's what a lot of us in this room are like. Because, you see, the moment you were transferred into the kingdom of the God's dear Son. The fears in your life, the pride in your life, the sins in your life that were ordering you around because before you got into the kingdom of God, they were in your life with the full rights of citizens. But now, your sins are illegal aliens. They no longer have power over you. You do not have to do what they say. Are you going to act like a slave or like a citizen? It's not going to be easy. than it would be for that man. But the only way you'll ever overcome the things that are in your life is to recognize that truth. The only way that man would ever stop acting like a slave is to remind himself and to tell himself and to begin to step out on the basis of what is true legally that was mighty, mighty hard to work into his personality after all those years. And it's hard for us too. But do you believe that God's power is escorting you through life? Do you believe you've got God's power in your life to deal with those things? or like a slave. And not only that, God's escorting you with his power through history. The Bible says, not that if God is your king that you won't have troubles, but the Bible does say all things work together for good. That means, in a sense, God is overwhelming and overpowering troubles that come into your life so that they are the things that you need to change you, you, to grow you. That's why Joseph, remember he was sold into slavery by his brothers? In Genesis 50 verse 20, he looks his brothers in the eye, why isn't there any bitterness? Because Joseph was sold into slavery, he was able to rise up into great places of power in Egypt, and he looked at them, his brothers, and said, you meant it for evil, but God meant it for good. See, God escorted me through history. With his overwhelming power, Even the troubles that came into my life, he worked them out for good. That kind of power is in your life too. God is your escort if you're a citizen of the king. Now the third thing. I said, remember, two rights. The right of appeal. Number two, the right of escort. Number three, I'll give you a duty. If you are a citizen, you represent your people. If you're a citizen, you represent the king. and here we're told that if you're a citizen that makes you a nation. If you're a citizen, you're part of a nation. 1 Peter 2.9 comes right out and explicitly says, you are a new nation. Or, right here in verse 15 of the same chapter, it says, God takes Jew and Gentile and makes them one new man. You're a new humanity, you're a new race, you're a new nation. Now, the word in 1 Peter 2.9, nation, is the word ethne. And the Bible says that when you become a Christian, you become a new ethnic. What is an ethnic? How do ethnics differ from each other? Well, I'll tell you. An ethnic group is something very different than an organization or a club, isn't it? Two clubs differ from each other only in a couple areas. Like, how does the optimist differ from the Boy Scouts? They differ in age. They differ in activity. But how does a German differ from a Chinese person? In all kinds of ways. Because your ethnicity, your culture tells you how to live in every way, doesn't it? It tells you how men and women relate. It tells you how parents and children relate. It tells you how to dress. It tells you what's good art. It tells you what's good labor. It tells you good business practice. It even tells you what is humorous and what isn't. Right? Your culture tells you everything. What does it mean when the Bible says you've become a new ethnic? And this is radical. It means if you're a citizen, and you know you're a citizen, that the church is not just a lecture hall, the church is not just a social club, it's a counterculture. It's a pilot plant of what humanity would be in every area under the Lordship of Christ. It's a counterculture. We're told in Deuteronomy chapter 4,

to the children of Israel, obey the laws I give you so the nations will see how wise and great you are and how wise and great I am. That means, now listen, our citizenship, it says here in verse 19 and 20, is built on the foundation of the apostles and the prophets. That's the word of God, the New and the Old Testament. As we submit every area of our lives to his lordship, we become a new ethnic. When the world looks at us, People who come and get kind of a high every so often, or come and get a little enrichment. If you're a citizen of the kingdom, that means Christianity cannot be another file in the crowded drawer of your life, another Weight Watchers program, another enrichment program. Instead, it should be the center of your life out of which every part of your life is controlled. Every part. To be a new ethnic. ethnic. If you don't understand this, you can't understand a lot of things in Scripture. For example, 1 Corinthians 6 says, no two Christians should ever sue one another in court. You know that? 1 Corinthians 6? You didn't know that. Well, what does that mean? Is that just busy work? Why did God come up with that one? It's very simple. If we are to be the people of God, if we're to be a new ethnic, if we're to be a pilot plant showing the world what a new humanity would be underneath the Lordship of Christ. We need to show the world justice. If we can't work out our own disputes, if we can't show that we know how to deal fairly with people, work out disputes, work out justice within our own community, we've bought the ranch. We've blown the ballgame. For two Christians to go to court means that you fail to be the people of God. You do not understand your citizenship at all. You don't understand what it means to be an ethnic, you see. And it also means that the church is not a place to come just simply to get a little bit of inspiration for the week. It is a counterculture. You come here because you're saying, how in the world do I get my Christianity out in every area of my life, including my public life? If you're in fashions, for example, have you ever sat down and worked out what the Bible says about clothing? The Bible says a lot about clothing. God invented clothing, you know. And he invented clothing both to conceal certain things and to reveal certain things. Have you ever worked that out? And have pastors and Christian fashion people in the fashion business and other believers work together to figure out what some of those principles are so we can work them into our public lives and hold each other accountable. A counterculture is a place where we give one another support to be citizens of the kingdom in every area of our lives. Don't you see? And it's going to be very hard to get that off the ground because for the last 50 or 80 years, the churches have gotten no concept of citizenship and we see the church as simply a lecture hall or a social club and we don't give that kind of thing because we don't have a concept of the kingdom. That is a duty to represent, to exhibit the king. Now there's another part, but I won't even deal with it. I'll deal with it next week. And that is being an embassy, spreading the kingdom. But we won't get to that. I'm going to close up right now. Here's the bottom line. In this room, my guess is that there are some of you who are citizens who are living like aliens. Or strangers. And there are some of you, on the other hand, who are aliens who are living like citizens. Let me explain. Some of you are believers. You've received Jesus Christ as Lord. And you're citizens. But you're not living like citizens. Are you living in fear that somehow God is not going to help you with your problems. You're not living like a citizen. You've got the right of appeal. Are you living in anger because your life has been messed up? Angry at people for having done it. Angry at God. You're not living like a citizen. You don't see the escort that God has for you. Some of you are living cowed before problems in your life and you've given up on yourself and you're living like slaves and not like citizens. Some of you are just being... Some of you, in which you're not living like a citizen is you're just being mindless about your public life. In your private life, you're a Christian. You know, that means in the weekends, in the evenings, and whenever you get off. But the rest of the time, you don't look any different. Nobody ever looks at you and says, that person looks like a condom from a higher league. Nobody. There's a distinctiveness and a creativity about Christians who try to work out their citizenship because they know they're a new ethnic and that they're going to do everything in their life, including their public work, ethnically Christian. You see. Are you a citizen but you're living like a stranger. You're living like an alien. You're living like a slave. Are you? My friends. Demand your rights. But don't demand them of God. He's been offering them. Demand them of yourself. Don't demand them of God. He's a source of those rights. Look at yourself and say. You idiot. What are you living like this for? And then there's some of you. that are living like citizens who are really aliens. Now what I mean is, you expect God to take care of you. You expect God to bless you. You expect God to escort you. You expect God to listen to you. And yet you've never actually, actually applied for citizenship. Well how do you know if you've done that? Very simple. Number one, you have to admit you're an alien. Let me tell you this. Nobody has ever come to the United States and tried to become a U.S. citizen without at least admitting they weren't one. You've got to admit you aren't a citizen before they'll ever let you be one. And a lot of folks just won't do that. I've tried my best. I've lived a healthy, clean life. My friends, you can't become a citizen until you admit, until you say, oh, Lord Jesus Christ, because I owe you everything because you invented me, you made me, and I should be loving you with all my heart, soul, strength, and mind, but I don't, and I have no rights before you at all. I am an alien. But then secondly, you turn around and you say, oh, Lord, because of what Jesus Christ did, Because what Jesus Christ did on the cross. He bought my citizenship for me. And as you transfer your trust from yourself to Jesus Christ. He transfers your citizenship from darkness into light. And when you do that. You're in. You're a citizen. Are you a citizen? Are you a citizen living like an alien? Are you an alien living like a citizen? Let's apply this to our hearts in a moment of silent reflection. Take time. Think it through. Go to Him. and pray and apply this truth to your own heart. With the Spirit's help, let's do that now.