I'd like to draw us in to look at Isaiah chapter 6, and I'm going to read from verses 1 through 10.

In the year that King Uzziah died, I saw the Lord seated on a throne, high and exalted, and the train of his robe filled the temple. Above him were seraphs, each with six wings. With two wings they covered their faces, with two they covered their feet, with two they were flying, and they called to one another, Holy, Holy, Holy is the Lord Almighty. The whole earth is full of his glory. At the sound of their voices, the doorposts and thresholds shook, and the temple was filled with smoke. smoke. Woe to me, I cried, I am ruined, for I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell among a people of unclean lips, and mine eyes have seen the King, the Lord Almighty. Then one of the seraphs flew to me with a live coal in his hand, which he had taken with tongs from the altar. With it he touched my mouth and said, See, this has touched your lips. Your guilt is taken away and your sin atoned for. And then I heard the voice of the Lord saying, Whom shall I send? And who will go for us? And I said, Here am I, send me. He said, Go and tell this people, be ever hearing and never understanding, be ever seeing and never perceiving. Make the heart of this people calloused, make their and close their eyes. Otherwise they might see with their eyes, hear with their ears, understand with their hearts, and turn and be healed.

This is God's Word.

This fall we're looking at, each week, another attribute of God, a different characteristic, a different aspect to His nature. Experienced Christians, whatever that is, whatever they are. Experienced Christians can make sense of their lives by looking at how God has taught them his name and his attributes. An experienced Christian stands before any event and says, the main business of this event is for me to know God. In other words, a Christian stands and says, I don't know the specific reasons for this marriage problem or the loss of my job or this difficult person in my life to love or this goal that I've never reached. I don't know the specific reasons for it, but I know the general, most basic purpose of it is that I know God better. And, you know, you go through the Bible and you'll see that God does not just say, I am Jehovah, I am the Lord. He tells you various parts about who he is in various aspects. When Abraham thinks he's going to have to lose his son Isaac, God appears and says, I am Jehovah Jireh. I will always provide. He appears to the children of Israel when they're about to die of thirst, and he heals a polluted lake, and he says, I am Jehovah Rapha. I'm the one that heals you. He appears to the children of Israel when they're about to fight against an overwhelming force, and he says, I'm Jehovah Nissi. I am your banner. I am your victory. And so an experienced Christian can look back on your life and you can say, in that period of time, God was revealing himself to me, showing me another part of his name, helping me apprehend with richness another excellency, another attribute of his being. You can look back through the attributes of God and make sense out of your life. you can look forward and face anything that's in front of you through the attributes of God. Because real fullness of humanity is to know God for who he is and all the richness of what that is. Now today we're looking at his holiness. And instead of one or two or three things, I'm afraid I'm going to show you four things about holiness from this passage. To my shock, even though I talk about this passage all the time, it. And when I actually dove into it, I found it was even richer than I had anticipated. All four things are critical for you to understand God's holiness. To leave any one of them out, I'm afraid will give you a truncated or a false view of it. And what I'm going to show you that this text teaches us is, first of all, his holiness overwhelms us with his superlativeness. That's what it means of all, his holiness overwhelms us. Then it strips us of deception. Then it heals us with his grace. Then it supernaturalizes and renovates our character. Four things overwhelms us, strips us, heals us, and renovates us. And if you don't understand all four of those things, you are not going to understand real holiness and what it means to say God is holy. First, he overwhelms us with a superlativeness. The seraphs are crying, holy, holy, holy. Now the word holy, kadosh means separate, cut, literally it means. It means to be separate, above, beyond, exalted infinitely above us, other. It's talking about the otherness of God. It means when you see his holiness, You realize he's beyond, and he's above.

And if you want to be really practical, when the holiness of God strikes you, you realize that he is so superlative, and he is so perfect, and he is so absent of anything crooked or limited or distorted or broken. You're so overwhelmed with his perfection and his purity that you realize that you cannot trifle with him. You cannot argue with him. to him. You cannot beat him. You cannot avoid him. You cannot ignore him. You cannot question him. Now all those things are things that we do naturally, until you see the holiness of God. The holiness of God is his superlativeness, his above-aboveness, his beyond-beyondness. another way to put it is threatening superlativeness Rudolf Otto, a German scholar in the first part of the 20th century who wrote the book The Idea of the Holy in which he was looking at all the different religions to find commonalities he said all people when they approach God when they approach God they are torn by ambivalent forces of both fascination and fright but that's the way it is in the presence of anything that's superlative, even superlative humans. The most gorgeous man or woman at the party, the most brilliant, two, three, four times more brilliant student than anybody else in the class. How do you approach people like that? There's an attraction, but there's also, they're very threatening. I was talking to a man who... I was just casually talking to him. It turned out he was from Pittsburgh. I said, oh, where did you go to high school? He told me. He said, I played football there. And then he told me how old he was. And I said, oh, well, you would know so-and-so. And this would be a guy who was not only an all-American football player, an all-American in high school, but also in college. And now he's an all-pro. And I said, didn't he go to that school? Did you play with him? And the guy's face kind of went like this. And he said, yeah. He says, what an experience. an all-star in my conference. This guy comes up. He's a freshman. He's three, four years younger than me. He's twice as big as anybody else on any of the teams. He's twice as fast as anybody else. I mean, he would embarrass you just running down the field, you know, with the special teams because he'd get to the kicker twice as fast as anybody else. I thought I was pretty good. He said Everybody was excited to have him on his team, and we all hated him. And we all despised him. You see, even at the human level, superlativeness totally threatens us. Remember the Peter Principle book that said most super-confident people have to go off and start their own businesses? That they'll never make it up in the hierarchy of the big corporation? Why? Because they deeply threaten their superiors. and listen, you all live in a modern culture that is absolutely against the idea of a holy God. Absolutely against the idea of a God who is threatening. A God who is pure. Who is of pure eyes and can behold iniquity. Who will absolutely not tolerate evil at all. A God who sends people to hell. A God who descends on Mount Sinai in thunder and lightning so that if even an animal touches the mountain, they're put death. The whole idea of a threatening God we decide is primitive and is unmodern, and yet, even in the presence of superlative humanity, we're threatened. It only seems logical that if there's a God at all to even approach a real God, would be far more threatening and traumatic. Of course he's holy. He'd have to be holy, or he wouldn't be God at all. and that's exactly what you see here. Isaiah had never really had an apprehension of God before and his holiness leads Isaiah to say, woe to me. You know, woe is the curse of the covenant. Remember Jesus says, woe to you scribes and Pharisees because you've broken the covenant. Here's Isaiah putting the curse on himself. Woe to me! When Job saw God, in the last part of the book of Job, chapter 42, he says, I see you now with my eyes, and I abhor myself.

One of the more hilarious examples of the presence of the holy is in Mark 4, where Jesus is in the boat with his disciples, and there's a storm that comes up, and they're all afraid.

And then he calms the storm, and they're terrified, Terrified. Because the rescue is more terrifying to them than the peril from which they're rescued. The storm isn't anywhere near as terrifying as to realize you're in the presence of God Almighty. And they were terrified. They said, who is this? I don't know what Ludwig Feuerbach and Freud think about Mark chapter 4. You know, those are the guys who always said, they tried to explain religion. They said, well, you know, religion grew up because when human beings were primitive, scared of nature. We were scared of the storms. And so we had to invent a God who we could go to and get help from. We were afraid of impersonal nature, so we had to invent a God that would enable us to deal with the frightening world that we lived in. Well, obviously, Christianity is a real failure if that's the original Genesis impulse of the invention of religion, because we've invented a God who's more scary than the nature for which we invented him to help us. them. The point is that God, Jesus Christ, when they realized whose presence they were in the presence of, were absolutely terrified. I'll put it this way, and we can move on. You haven't seen the holiness of God until you see his power and perfection to the degree that all of your excuse-making and all of your complaining about him and all of your questioning of him falls at your feet, pitiful looking to you, realizing, I have no right to question a God like this. I have no right to complain about a God like this. I was talking to a woman the other day and asked her, when did you become a Christian? She said, well, that's hard to say. You mean the day that I really heard and understood the Christian and message for the first time? Or the day that I really came to believe it? Or do you mean the day that I realized that if God was who he said he is, that my entire life was going to be completely changed and turned upside down? I said, I'd like to know about that day. Because I said, I don't know when you were converted, but that was the day that you realized that this God was a holy God. look the doorposts and the thresholds shook at the sound of the voice they're they're not even people and they're moved they're overwhelmed and what she was saying is one day I realized that this is a God you can't ignore you can't trifle with I can't back away from this is a God with whom I must have to do and if I approach him at all it's going to mean a radical change in everything I do and think, what was she doing? What was happening? The doorposts and the thresholds of her life were being moved by the holiness of God. Has that happened to you?

Yes. Has it happened to you? Boy, you need it. Now, I have to move on, but let me just tell you for a minute, as frightening as it sounds, you need it. You know the reason I worry? I worry when I forget not just that God's wise, holy wisdom. I worry when I start to think, when I start to forget that God's wisdom must be so far above my wisdom, it's unassailable, and that he knows what's best. I start to get angry, and I can even be bitter if I forget that God's justice is holy justice. That you see, he certainly has to be more fair-minded than me. He certainly has to be more, he's more holy than me. He's going to put everything right. Everybody's going to get what everybody deserves. All accounts will be square. And whenever I am dominated by the idea that somebody's gotten away with something, somebody has done something that's not right. This world isn't fair. You see, your bitterness comes when you forget that his justice is holy justice. Your worry comes when you forget that his wisdom is holy wisdom. Until you're overwhelmed by him. You're never going to be able to handle the universe. that was created and run by a holy God. So first of all, his holiness overwhelms us. Secondly, it strips us.

Now, when Isaiah hears and sees and grasps the holiness of God, in the old King James authorized version, he says this, Woe is me, for I am undone. I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips, for mine eyes have seen the King, the Lord of hosts. Why is he talking about his lips? You know, it's kind of odd. He's traumatized, yes. He doesn't come in and see the Lord of hosts and go running out saying, hey, come and look at this. He doesn't say, man, this is great. Great. He says, I am ruined. I am literally coming apart because my lips are unclean. Why his lips? What about his ears? You know, what about his feet? They're uglier than your lips. You know, why the lips? And here's why. Isaiah is a prophet. See, Isaiah chapter 6, this is not his call to be a prophet. He's already a prophet. Go back to Isaiah chapter 1, 2, 3, 4, already prophesying. What's a prophet? A preacher. What's a prophet? A pundit. A prophet is a public communicator, an oral communicator, a speaker. To a prophet, your lips are what to a dancer your legs are, what to a pianist your fingers are, what to a pitcher your arm is. In other words, it's your pride and joy. The holiness of God does not lead him to think about his sins. it leads him immediately to look at his strengths and find that they're not strengths at all. Now listen here. Listen carefully. This is not just one of the key principles of biblical religion. This is not just one of the things that sets off real Christians from moral people and religious people. This is one of the keys to life. The holiness of God does not simply lead Isaiah to repent of his sins. Plenty of people repent of their sins who really don't understand the gospel. The holiness of God leads Isaiah to repent of his righteousness. His best deeds, his pride and joy, the thing he felt he does best, that explains why he feels like he's coming apart. He's talking psychologically. You know why he feels like he's coming apart, why he's ruined, why he's undone? because every human being has got a glue that holds your personality together. Every human being has an integrating factor. Every human being has something that makes you feel that you're okay. Every human being has a basis for the self-image. The holiness of God lays bare the foundation of your soul, reveals that the glue, the thing that you think makes you okay, is inadequate before God.

and you feel immediately as your glue is vaporized that you're coming apart. For Isaiah, the integrating glue of his personality was his lips. He said, the reason I'm okay is I'm a great preacher. And he began to suddenly see the falsity of that. He began to see the inadequacy of that. Paul had a similar experience. had a similar experience. In Romans chapter 7, we're told how he became a Christian. He was studying the Ten Commandments, of all things. And he got to the place where it says, do not covet. And he says, the law came and I died. Romans 7 is the same as Isaiah 6. What was the glue of Paul's life. He wasn't proud of his lips. The integrating factor of his personality wasn't his lips. That's not what made him feel okay. You and I are all different. Some of you, it's your intelligence. Some of you, it's your attractiveness. Some of you, you think you're savvy. Some of you, it's your children. Some of you, it's your parents, their approval. Some of you, it's your professional skill. Everybody's got one. Everybody's got a glue, something that it says I'm okay because of this. For Paul, it was his moral rectitude. That happens a lot to religious people. A lot. The thing that said I makes me feel okay, Paul said, was my moral rectitude. And one day, he was reading the Ten Commandments, he read Do Not Covenant, and it said, suddenly he realized it meant that he had to love God so much that he could never be discontent in any situation, or ungrateful in any condition. He realized what thou shalt not covet meant. And suddenly the holiness of God flooded him, and he realized the sinfulness of his strength. My lips, my rectitude, my pride and joy is all evil. And the minute that happened, he says, I died. That's what Paul says. It's the same thing as what Isaiah says when he says, I'm coming undone. My lips. Some years ago, when I was still trying to figure out

what Christianity was really about, I read a sermon that I've never forgotten by George Whitefield on 300 years old now, I guess, or 200, Jeremiah 6.14, which says, Peace, peace, when there is no peace. out like this. It says, how do you know if you really have peace with God? The first point was, you can't have peace with God unless you've repented of your sins. So I read that and I said, okay, that makes sense. And I figured the second point would be, now if you've repented of your sins, turn to Jesus and trust him for your forgiveness. But he doesn't do that in the sermon. Instead, Whitefield says, if you want to have peace with God, not only must you repent of your sins, but then he turns around and says, you can't trust Christ as Savior, you can't know the joy of his salvation, unless you have also repented of your righteousness. Otherwise, when you turn to Jesus, you only use him to save yourself through religion. And this is what he says in the sermon, which I have underlined and I've got, and some of the underlinings look like that they have been messed up with the water out of tears. This is an amazing statement. He says, when a soul first gets a sight of God, it says, I will reform. I will be mighty good. So like Adam and Eve in the garden, the soul first, when it first gets a sight of God, of its own to hide the nakedness it feels before God. But when a soul gets a full view of God, it realizes it never has and never will love God as he deserves to be loved, with all the heart, soul, mind, and strength, that even the best deeds defiled and full of self-centeredness are they, that God would condemn you for the best prayer you ever set up, that your repentance needs to be repented of, and that all of your righteousness is a filthy rag, and that God must send them and you away if you bring them in to him in order to recommend you to his favor. Therefore, only before the face of God, says Whitefield, only a sight of God's full holiness can bring you out of your self-righteousness, which is always the last idol taken out of your heart. Until you see it for what it is, You will not trust in Christ. You may turn to him for help, you may make him your example, but you will not trust in him as Savior until you've repented for your righteousness. See what he's saying? That's the big difference between just being moral. And see, a moral person's repenting of sins is always guilty, always feeling crushed, always feeling like you're never, ever living up. But if you repent of your righteousness, too, you'll realize there's no hope, no way, no way will ever be able to live up. And therefore, the only hope is a complete salvation. The only hope is free grace, is total forgiveness, complete pardon. And that's the reason why, in a sense, what the holiness of God shows you is not just the seriousness of your sin, but also the sinfulness of your seriousness. Of even your best efforts, of even the most moral efforts that you can possibly come up with. Now, hear this. What I'm trying to show you is there is no end run around the holiness of God to get to his love. What I'm telling you is something absolutely necessary for you to ever really come into the liberation of the full salvation and grace of God. It looks to some of you, I know, If you're a thoughtful person, it looks to you like this religion must be psychological suicide. In order to approach God, I see, you say, the logic of it. In order to approach God, I must begin to see that he is infinitely greater than me, and I'll be threatened, and my heart will be revealed, and I'll see that even the things I trust in are just little pseudo-salvations, little false gods. God's, things that I thought made me good, but before the holiness of God, they pale, they become pitiful. Well, that sounds like psychological suicide. What do you have when you have that? You have nothing, and nothing is the only thing that you can offer God to receive his everything. All you need is need. All you need is nothing, but most people don't have that when they go to God. They come with all the other things that Whitfield talks about. All the other things. You say, look, I'm repentant. That should be enough to get you to love me. But your repentance needs to be repented of. Look, I pray, but God can condemn you for the best prayer you ever set up. Look, I'm a preacher. Look at my lips. Oh, my lips.

You know, any preacher that gets into the presence of the holiness of God realizes your motives are such mixed things when you preach. It's easy to say, well, I'm preaching for the glory of God. I'm preaching for the love of the people. Right.

In the face of the holiness of God, the sham basis of your soul is revealed. The self-righteousness, the thing that you are sure is what really is going to make you acceptable, is shown to be what it is. It strips you. You realize who you are. You realize what you are. But then thirdly, the holiness of God heals you. Or better yet, put it this way. The holiness of God overwhelms us. But then secondly, it strips us. But then thirdly, the holiness of God makes grace real. Now this is the good news. Some of you are saying, it's about time. The good news is this. You will never find grace and the love of God, something that shakes you to your roots, that changes you, something that lifts you up and gives you power to spare until you've been brought out of your self-righteousness. Look what happens to Isaiah. Isaiah is coming apart. Isaiah says, woe is me, I'm undone. He's like those people in the book of Revelation, chapter 6, where they say on the last day to the mountains, fall on us, and to the hills, cover us and hide us from the face of the one who sits upon the throne. That's how Isaiah felt. But out of the darkness, beyond all hope and reason, here comes a seraph with a coal from the altar. What's the altar? It's the place where sins are atoned for. It's the place where the blood is spilled. It's the place where sins are paid for. Now, you don't think that Isaiah, who's a professional preacher, didn't know that's what the altar is for. Isaiah always knew that the altar was for the sacrifice for sins. That was the place of atonement. That's the place of forgiveness. But what happens here, as the coal hits his lips,

it's showing us that for the first time, the grace of God becomes more than a theory to him. And it burns away his guilt.

Like a cold iron burns you. Isaiah had a theoretical view of his sin, and it became practical. As a result, he had a theoretical view of the grace of God, but now, and only now, does it become something that energizes him and changes him. Only now. You know, Dr. Martin Lloyd-Jones years ago gave me the illustration for this in one of his sermons that I've never forgotten, and some of you have certainly heard it. He says, if somebody comes to you and says, I paid one of your bills, you have no idea how excited to be. It could be, you know, you just paid a postage she paid. Maybe she comes and says, I paid a bill and maybe all she did was pay postage due, you know, paid a couple dollars. So a package that owed postage on it could be received. But maybe on the other hand, she paid $40,000 of your back IRS taxes. You see, until you know the actual amount of the debt, you don't know how joyful to be. Or put another way, the size of the debt actually determines the magnitude of the joy. Isaiah really hadn't seen just how helpless he was before the Father. Isaiah hadn't ever seen the depths of his creaturehood. He was never radically aware of his sin and as a result of that when he thought about the love and about the forgiveness of God it was a sentimental thing. It was a trivial thing. It never affected him. But now, now suddenly to know that God forgives

revolutionized. I've seen a number of young mothers after they've had their child and they've been caring for it for six months, seven months. They call their mother up, usually if they have the guts, and they say, Mom, I always knew, you know, how hard it was and how much, you know, you did for me as a child, but now I really know. I always, you always told me how much of a sacrifice it was, you know, to take care of me, but I had no idea. You see, I'm smitten now because I always knew you loved me, but it wasn't much you loved me. I wasn't able to see how much you loved me until I saw just how difficult this really was. In the same way, Isaiah has never been changed by the love because he's never seen the holiness of God and he's never really repented of his self-righteousness. This is a simple test. Dear friends, look. Unless you are wounded by the holiness of God, you'll never be healed by the grace of God. Unless you're wounded by the holiness of God, you'll never be healed by the grace. if the grace of God is something you shrug about, if you don't know what in the world

has gotten into people who say, He loves me, and you see their lives change, and you say, well, I've always believed He loves me, but my life hasn't changed, you know what the difference is? You don't understand the holiness of God. There's a lot of people who just participate in modern man's and a distaste for the holiness of God. But if you remove the holiness of God from your understanding, you evacuate his love of its power. God, a real holy God, is different than the demanding God that many of you were raised with. The demanding God that you were raised with says you have to obey, you've got to do better, you can do it, ever seems to be satisfied. Some of you are crushed by a God like that. That's not a real holy God. The real holy God says you can't obey. You're not even close to him. Even your righteousness is a filthy rag. Don't you see now? You'll never be liberated and understand my grace and mercy until you see how utterly you need it. The real holy God never shows you your sin, except to heal you with his grace. The real holy God never rubs your nose in your flaws, except to bring a coal and put it on your lips. If there's anybody in this room who thinks that God is just punishing you and just wants you to feel bad by showing you your failures and flaws, it's a God of your imagination. Yes, it could be that right now some of you are going through a difficult time in which God may be showing you your flaws but he would never a holy God would never do that except to show you his holy love and his holy grace and to change your life with it don't you see of course God welcomes you into his arms of course God loves you but until you see it's a God of holy power. It's a God infinitely exalted. A God, a ray of His eye being able to just pulverize whole solar systems. Unless you see it's a God like that who loves you like that, you're never going to be shaken to the roots by His love. Now lastly, the holiness of God overwhelms us, then the holiness of God strips us, and the holiness of God heals us, always. Finally, the holiness of God supernaturalizes our character. The holiness of God renovates us and changes us. What happens to Isaiah here? God says, as soon as he's cleansed, as soon as he's gone through the holiness-grace dynamic, and as soon as he's seen the holiness, been stripped of his self-righteousness, and now finally realizes what the grace of God really means, what has happened to him? God says, I've got a job for a prophet. I need a prophet. And I need a prophet to go to a group of people listen to him. I need a prophet to go and spend the next 30 years preaching to people who will only despise and only ridicule him. I need a prophet who will go and take a job that will mean that the rest of your life will be perceived as a professional failure, and your life will continually be in danger. You'll receive no support or affirmation of any sort. Do I have any applications? And Isaiah immediately jumps up and says, Here am I. Send me. Why? Don't you see the liberation? He is no longer afraid of being perceived as a failure. He's already been perceived as a failure. He knows that God sees him as a failure, and God has received him and accepted him. He's not afraid of anything anymore.

Do you know how liberated you would be if you understood the holiness of God like that and the grace of God like that? liberation is called in the Bible? It's called personal holiness. The holiness of the human heart is a response to the holiness and the grace of God. And when you have responded to that, you will, for example, be full of courage. Sure, courage, because you'll say, here is the Holy Father in whose presence even the angels burn in smoke and they have to cover over their faces, and yet he loves me. If that God is for me, what am I afraid of? It brings courage. It brings peace. You know why God revealed himself to Isaiah?

Because it's the year King Uzziah died. Well, what's so special about that? King Uzziah had reigned for 52 years. Everybody was terrified. You know, when you have a king for 52 years and he dies, everybody's terrified about the future, and God reveals himself to Isaiah, who's scared about the future, and says, I want to show you that I'm the real king. I read an interesting little article on how to deal with worry. I picked it up out of a popular magazine, and it said what you do is you put a rubber band around your hand, and when you start to worry, you pull a rubber band, and you snap it back, and put a little bit, and then you say, worrying won't help me at all, and then relax every muscle in your body and then picture yourself in some idyllic setting. This was an expert in how to cope with life. Snapped over a band. Tell yourself it's no good to worry. Relax every bone in your body and your muscles. And then imagine yourself in an idyllic setting. The Bible says you don't need tricks. the Bible says you don't need gimmicks many of you are living in the year King Uzziah died many of you are living in situations where something you've always counted on has been ripped out from under you and you're scared about your future you don't need a rubber band, you don't need muscle relaxing you don't need visualization techniques you need a look at the face of the Holy God who says if I'm your king and in spite of my holiness I have received you through my grace

then you really can have courage. Then you can really have peace. Then you can really have purity.

Don't you see what you need is God? You don't need a technique. Don't you see what you need is repentance before the holiness of God? Don't you see that there's no shortcuts to it? Some of you say, I thought Christianity was a God of love and that you came and He just helped you with your self-esteem by showing you how much He loves you. friends, you'll never be able to get to His love unless you go through His holiness.

But if you go through His holiness, if you go to the altar, if you go to the temple, and you see Him,

you'll come out changed. You'll come out holy. Let's pray. Now, Father, Father, there's some of us in the room that have find the whole idea of a holy God repulsive and repugnant. Lord, I would pray that you would reveal yourself to them, that you would show them that it's not only not repulsive, but it's logical and sensible that you would have to be a threatening holy presence. that you'll show them that unless they see you as holy, your love will mean nothing. Unless they see you as holy, they'll never know themselves. So Father, I pray that you change their hearts and draw them to yourself. Father, there's a number of us that are actually going through a period of time in which you're actually showing us those flaws, and you are drawing out of us, are you're stripping away from us our self-deceptions, and you're showing us our sins, but you haven't yet brought that coal and put it on our lips. Father, for all of those, I pray that they might not turn back in despair, but they might see that the only hope for the depression and discouragement they feel is to go right into your throne room, right into your presence, right to your face, to surrender themselves and give themselves and seek you and know your grace And Father, so many of us realize that we don't have that self-abandonment, that tremendous liberation that Isaiah had, that here am I, send me heart. We don't have it because we've lost sight both of your holiness and therefore of your grace. Give us renewed apprehensions of your glory, we ask in Jesus name, amen.
