We're looking at the book of Revelation and we're looking at these various letters written to various churches in Asia Minor, in what is now Turkey. And as we've mentioned before, we know that this book, the book of Revelation, came to the Christian churches just before or right in the beginning of a major persecution. We know that by the time of the Emperor Trajan, who was the emperor of the Roman Empire from 98 AD to 117, by that time we knew it was illegal to be a Christian, that if anyone was accused of being a Christian, he was brought before the proconsul or the imperial governor. They were asked if they were Christians. They were asked, therefore, if they said they were, they were asked to curse Christ and to worship the gods or the emperor. And if they did, they could be spared. tortured and executed. The book of Revelation was written to prepare the people, the Christians, for that situation. The simple fact of history is that the things that are in this book actually did the job. They did prepare them to face it. We have an extremely interesting example of this. We have a historical track from the time. We have an account, we have a dialogue between six Christian men in the city of Carthage who had been brought up on charges that they were Christians, six of them. And they stood before the proconsul, whose name was Saturnius. And we have the dialogue. Saturnius says to them, Swear thou by the Lord our emperor. And the spokesman for the men says, we have committed no wrong, we've committed no theft. When we buy something, we pay the tax on it. And we do all this because we know our Lord, who no one sees with these eyes, who is the King of kings and the emperor of all nations. Saturnius says, have a delay of 30 days and rethink this. And the men said, no, we are Christians. Saturnius says, since you have

Look at what they did. This is extremely interesting. Notice this. When they were being called on the carpet and they knew that what they said would lead to torture and destruction, I mean, what actually happened was they quoted Revelation. What did they say? We are not going to bow the knee to the emperor because our God, a God, our Lord, a Lord who no one can see with these eyes, is the King of kings and is the Lord of lords. And that is a description of Jesus Christ we have in this book of Revelation. What are we saying? Jesus, in this book, gave to the people who read it some truths that once they took them into their heart made them people of endurance. In verse 10, Jesus commends this particular church and says, you have kept my word of endurance. You have kept my command to patiently endure. Now that word endurance is a great word. It's a Greek word, hupomeno. Now meno means to stay, but hupomeno means to hyper stay. It says in Hebrews chapter 12, it says, Jesus Christ hupomenoed the cross. He faced pain. He faced suffering. He faced trouble. And he hyperstood. You know what that means. Look at yourself. Look at the troubles you have. Look at the things that you're worried about. Look at the things, look at the pain in your life. How do you deal with it? Do you crumple? Or do you hyperstand? Are you people of endurance? of durability. That is what the truths of this book absolutely can deliver. We know it. Historically, we know it happened. The Romans were amazed to see how the Christians were able to get up in front of governor after governor after governor and say, we will not bow the knee because our Lord is King of Kings and Lord of Lords. Well, you'll be put to death. Thanks be to God. And the Romans looked at that and they couldn't believe what they saw, the calmness, the lack of bitterness in the Christians. Now, what I'm trying to tell you is this is extremely practical. Jesus could hyperstand in the face of the cross, in the face of torture, and the people who came to understand his teaching and received him as such got the same ability. You know, it's interesting how Jesus turned to all of the disciples, the most changeable, the most manic depressive of the disciples, St. Peter, except originally his name was Simon. And what did they say to him? Jesus turns to Simon and says, Simon, I'm going to call you Peter, which means the rock. Simon, a rock? Jesus says, I'm a rock. I can hyperstand in the face of anything. And if you connect with me, I can make you a rock as well. Now, how are we doing? Jesus hyper stood the cross. Peter hyper stood execution. Anybody who took these truths into his or her heart was able to hyper stand, endure, be durable, endure. How are you doing? I don't know about you but I can't even hyper stand a diet. Can you hyper stand the peer pressure? Some of you are crumbling. Do you want to be It tells you how to do it here. Listen, if what is in this letter enabled those people to face that, what's our excuse? Whatever you're facing this week, it's probably not that. It's probably not having your toes cut off. It's probably not being covered with pitch and lit as a torch. It's probably not having your head cut off. If this enabled them to hyperstand that, it will enable you to hyperstand anything. Do you see? Well, somebody says, what does it mean to be of endurance, how can that happen? And the answer is, there are three little figures, three symbols, or illustrations, that are in this text that I think are the key to how you can become a person of endurance like that, and keep his command to patiently endure. There's a door, there's a key, and there's a pillar. There's a door, there's a key, and there's a pillar in this letter. what those three things mean, you will understand what it means and how to become a person of durability of endurance, a person who can go the distance, a person who can face anything, and that's what we need. Okay? Number one, this text teaches the first truth that you need to take into your heart. Jesus says, I have put before you an open door. I have put before you this carefully. In verse 8, he says, I know your deeds. I have put before you an open door. Then down in verse 10, he says, because, now it's a long phrase that you have to understand. I have put before you an open door because you have kept my command to patiently endure. Now, here's the first truth that you have to understand. This teaches us that a Christian can suffer with purpose. Christian sufferings are not meaningless. A Christian sees all suffering, all trials, all pain as purposeful. That's the first truth you've got to take into your heart if you want to be a people of endurance, if you want to be able to have the same ability to stand that those early Christians had. A Christian sees his or her suffering as purpose. Now, this is what's interesting. First of all, Jesus says, I put before you an open door. Very briefly explain this. What it means is, in the New Testament, an open door almost always means an opportunity for the success of the Christian message. Paul talks about it, 1 Corinthians, 2 Corinthians, Colossians. an open door is an opportunity for the Christian message to spread and be very successful in a community or a neighborhood or a city. What's interesting, of course, is that Jesus admits that they have little strength. He says, I know your deeds and you have little strength. In Greek, it means you're really a puny group. You're puny. You don't have a lot of talent, you don't have a lot of numbers, and they're being persecuted by a synagogue. Now, if you read it, it looks a little the book of Revelation, you'll see it's not. It says to synagogue, it says, they say they're Jews, but they're not really Jews. And, you know, the book of Revelation is not picking on the Jews, because if you look back to the letter to Sardis that we looked at last week, that's a place where it says, you say you're Christians, you have a reputation for being Christians, but you're dead. All Jesus is saying here is, it's one thing to be culturally and nominally a Christian, Christian. It's another thing to be truly a Christian. It's one thing to be culturally and nominally a Jew. It's one thing to be truly a Jew. It's one thing to be culturally and nominally a Muslim. It's one thing to be truly a Muslim. That's all. And what he's saying is, there's a particular synagogue. He's laying a principle down. A synagogue of Jews that were persecuting this particular church, but he says, you will be amazed. It won't be long before they, as hard as they seem to be, as hostile as they seem to be, it won't be long before they begin to realize I love you. You see what it says? It says, I'll bring you to the time. I'll bring things to the situation where they will come and fall down and acknowledge that I have loved you. What is Jesus saying? He's saying you're puny. There's very few of you. You're not very talented, but people who you never thought in a million years would listen to you will listen to you. People that you never thought would win over, you'd win over, you will win over. People that you would thought were will be softened and melted into your friends. Well, now, how's that going to happen? He says, the reason I'm going to open that door is because you patiently endure. And this is the irony. Jesus says, the way you handle closed doors will open others. He says, the reason I'm going to open that door, the reason that people are going to see a greatness about you, come, the reason that you're going to be able to win people over is because of, the reason that door will open is because of the way in which you handle the closed doors of your life. In verse 10, he says, you patiently endured. We don't know what they patiently endured, but what it means is when God closed doors,

doors of career, maybe doors of health, doors of relationship. You know what suffering is? It's closed doors. You expect it to be this far by this time in your career. You expect it to be this far. You expect it to be making more money. You expect it to have more friends. You expect it to be this. You expect it to be married. Closed doors is the thing that makes you suffer, that hurts you. Jesus says, because you have been so patient in handling your closed doors, I will open other ones. It's a remarkable statement. suffering is never for nothing. If you handle suffering properly, it will turn you into great people who can open other doors. If you handle closed doors right, I will use those closed doors in your life to enable you to open other ones. Do you follow that? The failure in front of you, if you handle it properly, will turn you into somebody who will succeed in some other way never could succeed. The way you handle the closed doors will turn you into the kind of people that I can use in other ways. Greatness comes from handling suffering. Now this is an extremely important truth and something the Bible teaches and frankly something that we can see in our experience. Even the Greeks had, the pagan Greeks had a proverb, pathamata mathamata, which means Suffering is education. I heard a person not too long ago, I overheard a conversation, and one man was saying to another man, there was a woman he knew who had been in a terrible car accident, and even though her life had been saved, she would spend the rest of her life in a great deal of pain. Virtually every day of her life she was going to experience pain. And then he made this offhanded comment, and he said, you know, if she was an animal, she would have been put to sleep. and when I heard that I realized something very interesting. It's true. Suffering has no meaning for animals. Suffering in an animal's life makes your life pointless but human life is infinitely higher than animal existence and the fact of the matter is if you go into the great art galleries of this world, if you listen to the great music of this world, you'll begin to realize that suffering has enriched people's lives. The suffering in the life of the artist makes them more rich, more wise, more deep, more profound. Suffering can make you, and we'll talk about the fact it doesn't have to, but suffering can make you much more human. Suffering can enrich, suffering can educate, suffering can be extremely meaningful. It can make you the kind of person, if you handle your closed doors properly, to enable you to go through other doors that you could never go through if you hadn't become what you are through the way you handled your failures, the way you handled your pain. What does this mean? Jesus tells us, and the Bible tells us, that suffering and trouble can do a number of things to us. First of all, for example, if you never deal with closed doors, oh, listen, Listen, just for a second. If you are one of those unfortunate people, secondly, somebody's got to be out there thinking, wait a minute, I keep hearing you say that troubles and suffering can make you humbler, but they can also make you go crazy. They can make you more human, but they can also make you more hard. They can make you more solid and strong, but they can make you more broken. and all of us know you can look at people who have suffered and the suffering has not made them these great things. Instead, the suffering has ruined them. And somebody out there, if you're thoughtful, you're saying, well, this all sounds very nice. But the fact is suffering will either make you a much better or a much worse person than you were before, but it will not keep, it will not leave you where you were. It will either push you into a far greater humanity or far greater hardness, far greater wholeness, or far greater But it won't leave you where you were. So how can I make sure that my suffering has a good purpose? And the answer is the second principle. The second principle is a Christian not only suffers with purpose, but a Christian grows under suffering because he or she suffers under authority. Jesus says, I have the keys of David. I open and no one can shut. I shut and no one can open. what I'm about to tell you is the crux of the sermon and of the letter and of the principle. No, suffering does not automatically, troubles do not automatically make you more human, make you more compassionate, make you more humble, make you more wise. No, they don't. The suffering can have that purpose. It can move you toward greater open doors if you suffer under authority, which means if you acknowledge that Jesus Christ has the key. Now, when Jesus says, I have the keys, that's a very significant word that we don't really understand. See, back in those days, when a person had a home, you couldn't lock the whole house up. There was no way to keep people out of the house. Houses didn't have, you know, doors and storm windows and things like that. In many cases, especially in the cities, people would have rights of way. There were sometimes passageways through your house that people could walk through. When a great lord, a great king or queen gave the management of their house to somebody, a steward, a prime minister, as it were, they would always give that prime minister the key because the keys opened everything. Everything was locked, you see. The kitchen was locked. The treasure was locked. The linens were locked. And whoever had the key was completely in charge and managed everything and ran everything. and so when Jesus Christ says I have the keys of David what he means is I have absolute power and authority over your life now Americans don't like to hear this Americans like to believe that they're really in charge of their lives let me just show you what this principle means first of all it means you're not in charge of your life I open and no one can shut I shut and no one can open you did not choose your chromosomes, you did not choose your level of intelligence, you did not choose your racial background, you did not choose the year that you were going to graduate from college, you did not choose the economic climate you came into, you did not choose your family life, you did not choose your talents. You know, some people can argue, well, are your talents and abilities really the product of nurture or nature? It doesn't matter. In either case, they came to you. They were open for you. Do you realize how little you were in charge of things? And don't you see that if you're a success today, thousands of things could have gone wrong that didn't? Not only the Bible, but social science research indicates that we have an infinite capacity for taking credit for everything good that happens in our lives and blaming the world and everything else for everything bad that happens to us. If you're successful today at all, Are you down in the dust, acknowledging that it's because he opened it all for you? Do you realize that unless you are continually grateful for everything that you experience, you're a cosmic plagiarist, refusing to acknowledge what you've gotten and where you got it from? You're not in charge of your life. Americans don't want to believe that, but inevitably it will happen. People who hasn't suffered. if your parents were wealthy and powerful enough to keep you from ever having to go it on your own, if you somehow have had a life laid out so that there's a lot of comfort and you really have not had to see reality on the chin, I can guarantee you something. You don't know it, of course you don't know it, but everybody else knows that you're shallow. You're superficial. Everybody can see it. the fact of the matter is, without suffering you don't really come into the fullness of what it means to be human and here are some reasons why the Bible tells us first of all

that through troubles and suffering you come to know yourself they can humble you can't know how you are doing physically just by laying on a bed and saying, well gee, how's my endurance how's my strength, you can't know that you can't know how you are really doing physically unless you're tested, unless you suddenly have to sprint for your life, unless you have to suddenly lift something, and then you realize, boy, I'm in bad shape. I need to work out. In the same way, you have no idea how patient you are. You have no idea how selfish you are. You have no idea how courageous you are unless you go through some kind of trouble. The way you are when you're getting bad, terrible news, the way you are when you're facing frustration and disappointment and pain is the way you really are. there's no way for you to know yourself unless you go through trouble. No way. The way you are when things are worse is the way you really are. That's the real you. Disgusting, I know. But don't you see, you'll never know yourself. You will never know yourself without it. Secondly, without trouble, without closed doors, not only will you never know yourself, but secondly, without trouble and closed doors,

never really know what lasts. It's not until the things that we build our lives on are jeopardized that we realize how fragile our lives are. If you've totally built your life around an ideal, totally built your life around money, totally built your life around an individual, totally built your life around an aspiration, it's not until something things that you realize how fragile you are and how superficial you are. You are bound, we are bound, we're enslaved by these things. And it's not until trouble comes along to threaten them that we dig down and realize we've got to deal with something deeper. Let me put it this way. The reason God lets bad things happen to you, it's mercy. Because anything but God that you live for is a sandcastle and the tide is flowing. Anything else but God that you build yourself in is a tree, and all of the forest is coming down. And you will never be solid. You'll never be a rock unless troubles come and shake those trees and shake those sandcastles. The reason you're so upset, remember we said this in the beginning of the service, in the very beginning, the Lord is my light and my salvation. Whom shall I fear? And that's the point. If there's anything but the Lord that is your light and your salvation, you will crumble because other things that are your light and your salvation gives you all sorts of things to be afraid of. If career is your salvation and your light, no wonder you're going to crumble. If romance is your salvation and your light, no wonder you're upset about the fact that you've gained some weight. See, until troubles come along, they don't show us just what flimsy things we've built our lives on. Troubles show you yourself. Troubles also show you what you've built your life on. And it's a mercy for God to show you that you've built your life on the sand instead of on the rock. And then lastly, but very important, troubles make you more human. They make you more compassionate. If you've been through troubles, you can see the signs in other people and you can sit down and you don't even have to tell them what your troubles are, but they know you understand. It turns you into a shepherd heart. It turns you into a compassionate person. It turns you into a person that knows how to help other people. Don't you see what Jesus is saying? He is saying, listen, my dear Philadelphians, you look at yourself as very weak, and you are. You look at yourselves as very puny and persecuted. You are. But the way you deal right now with the closed doors is going to lead to open doors that you can't imagine now. I will do great things through you. And so the first truth that you've to have the durability of these early Christians is your suffering, if you're a Christian, is never for nothing. Because Jesus says the closed doors will lead to open ones if you handle them rightly. Now, that's the first thing you have to understand. Your suffering has a purpose. You'll see it. We really aren't in charge. These doors have been opened from the other side. You're not in charge of your life, but also it means this. Jesus Christ's power over your life is not a naked power, it's a rightful power. And this is the heart of it all. It's not a naked power, it's a rightful power. He has the keys. That means he's been given this power. He has rightful authority over you. Now somebody says, well, I don't believe that. Frankly, I don't like all the closed doors in my life. I feel like he's been cruel to me. I feel like he's been harsh to me. How can I see his power as rightful? that's a good question. I'll show you. First of all, you'll see his power is rightful because of who he is. He built you, he created you. A jeweler has rights over her jewelry that she created. A gardener has rights over his flowers. An artist has the rights over her painting. An inventor has the rights over his invention. Why? Because you see, if you're an artist, big part of your own inner being into that artwork, and you've got rights over it because you and you alone understand it. You understand what it means. You understand how it works. Jesus is your author, and that's why he has to have your authority over you. You've got to realize, not the experts, but Jesus has the authority over you. He's got rightful authority over you. I just read not too long ago in the New York Times supplement, good health supplement, in the 60s, we were told good physically for us to ventilate our anger. Get it out. Hit something. That was good for you. Today we realize it's the worst possible thing for you. Whoops, says the experts in the New York Times. Why do they say whoops? Because they have a lot of knowledge, they have a lot of expertise, but they don't have authority over you because they're always reversing themselves because they are not your creator. Jesus is your artist. He's the one who created you. He's told you a lot of things in the Bible about anger. They have authority. The experts only have lots of good advice. Jesus has the rights over you because of who he is. But most of all, Jesus has the rights over you because of what he's done. Every religion believes that God has the keys. Every religion believes that God has the keys. Everything that happens in life is because God is in charge, and he's managing everything. That's what all the religions say. But we have the only religion that insists that God became a human being. The other religions say that can't be. No way could God become a human being. Well, that's not what I want to argue with you about now, but I'll tell you what it means for us. It's a radical thing. This is why Christianity has an approach to suffering that no one else has, And here's why. We have the only God who's got the keys, who knows what it's like to be locked out. Jesus Christ came to earth to pay the penalty for our sins. He was going to die on the tree. He was going to die on the cross. And we're told that in the Garden of Gethsemane, as he began to get a sense of what he was going to experience, as he began, in a sense, to view the raging furnace that he was about to be thrown into, when he realized the pain that was going to be poured out on him, do you know what he did? He did what any real human being would do. He said, I don't want this. Let me out. I don't want to die. He said, let this cup pass from me. And he banged on the door, and it didn't open. you know every religion says God has the keys but we have the only religion in which we have a God who knows what it's like to be locked out

Jesus should have you might say the right to have banged on that door and says God you cruel God let me out but instead he says not my will but thine be done you know what that teaches you. If you don't believe this, that Jesus did this, if you don't believe that Jesus was God and became a human being and experienced this most terrible of locked doors that anyone's ever experienced, you know, what is your locked door doing for you? You want to get out because you're lonely. You want to get out because things haven't gone so well financially. That's your locked door. Jesus' locked door was to have the wrath of God poured out on him and it wouldn't open. Now, if you don't believe Jesus did this, you will never be able to experience God's power over your life as anything but naked power. He's got power over your life. You know that. If you don't know it yet, you're very young. As time goes on, you will see you're not in charge of your life, and the things that are happening to you are out of your control. So there's no other way than this. You can either decide that the power of God over your life is just naked, or you can see Jesus Christ down the dust, writhing in the dust in pain, experiencing that terrible locked door for you and me. And if you see him doing that and submitting to that suffering, then you will know that he has a right to close doors on you now. Now, a Christian is somebody who looks at him and says, Lord Jesus, you were locked out for me. And my locked doors are nothing compared to the locked door that you had. In fact, and you've opened the only door that can kill me. You've opened the door into heaven. You've opened the door to God. God, if you experience these locked doors for me, I certainly can experience my locked doors for you. If you suffered like this to redeem me, I can suffer and know that somehow you'll bring good out of it, even as the Father brought good out of your suffering. Don't you see? You've only got three alternatives here. You can be a romantic that says life shouldn't be hard, and so you meet suffering with despair. Or you can be a stoic and say life is inevitably hard, and you just meet But a Christian doesn't suffer with despair or dignity only. A Christian suffers with hope. The romantic says it shouldn't be happening. The stoic says it is happening, but it means nothing. And the Christian says you can suffer with hope. Jesus, the one who holds the key, knows what it's like to be locked out. And because he knows what it's like to be locked out, because he was locked out for you, you can give him the right and the authority. You know he loves you. the reason these doors are locked is for good purpose now. I tell you, to the degree that you see Jesus locked out for you, to that degree, you will be able to suffer under authority. And to that degree, your suffering will turn you into something great instead of into something terrible. The logic, the logic. Now lastly, if you see that the one who holds the key was the one who was locked out,

and if, because you see what he did for you, it enables you to see that he loves you, and therefore the doors that are locked in your life are locked for good reasons, you can suffer under authority you can suffer in obedience you can suffer in faith and it will turn you into something great that will spring other doors open that you don't know of yet that's it and at the very end it says I'll make you into a pillar isn't that great, a pillar something rock, solid and you know how you can do that just work the logic out today and this week on yourself. Children hate locked doors. We lock things away from children. And what do the children say? Children say, oh, something wonderful is behind that door. How do I know? I don't know, but it's locked, so it must be wonderful. And if the kids ever get back in there, either something will fall down on their head or something will poison them or something like that. Is there anybody here who's screaming and fussing because there's a locked door in front of you and you're screaming and fussing because the great adult in the sky has locked it on you. He's got a right and he's got the authority. Do you want to be encouraged today? You have to humble yourself. You think you know what's best. You think if you had the key you would know what the right thing is to do with it. To the degree that you can humble yourself and say I don't deserve that key, I'm a child, he knows what's best, to that degree you'll be encouraged. you want to be a pillar? Humble yourself. You want to be a pillar? Look at him writhing on the ground. He suffered, not that we might never suffer,

but that in our suffering we become like him. And look forward. I read an account by a Japanese war prisoner that said he was in a prisoner of war camp in Singapore, and in 1945 they heard over the wireless that the Japanese were on a run. They were about to surrender. He said, well, it was funny. For the next two weeks, we were still in the prisoner camp. We're still in camp. We're still being beaten. We were still under confinement. Our lives were still in danger, but we knew that we were going to be released. And he said, you know, up to that time, we had refused to let ourselves either laugh or cry. It was too painful to laugh or cry, but once hope came in, in spite of the suffering, we started to laugh and cry. to be a pillar. It means to know that I don't know why I'm suffering today. I don't understand the meaning of it. I don't understand the meaning of suffering in general, but I know the suffering will be over. I know because someone came down from heaven and took it into himself and the hot lava of it fell into his heart. And as a result, there will be an end to everything that I'm experiencing now. You can laugh. You can cry. You can be a pillar. He who hasn't here, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. Let's pray. Our Father, we simply ask that now you would grant, as we meditate on your words, what it means to suffer under authority. If we suffer under authority, we will suffer with purpose, and we'll become a pillar. But if we refuse to suffer under authority, and Lord, what other alternative have we got? If we refuse to suffer under authority, we will suffer to no purpose, and we will be broken. Help us to choose what is obviously and inevitably the choice of joy, of love, and of truth. We pray this in Jesus name. Amen.
