Galatians, chapter 2. We've been looking at the book of Galatians, and we're at the very, very, very, very end of the first two chapters, chapter 2. And it tells the story of how Peter and Paul had a confrontation over the nature of the gospel, the essence of the Christian faith, over what a Christian really is. That's what the gospel is. What a Christian really is. And these are the final words that Peter heard from the lips of Paul in that confrontation. Galatians 2, just 17 to 21. If while we seek to be justified in Christ, it becomes evident that we ourselves are sinners, does that mean that Christ promotes sin? Absolutely not. If I rebuild what I destroyed,

Now, we're going to spend just one more week on this passage, last week. Some of you know that if you have an unusually rich meal, which most of you will have very soon, you know, the days afterwards you live off the leftovers and gladly, because it was so good. This particular passage is a great meal, and we looked at it last week, but there's a couple of leftovers, and I'd like to get them out, and I think we'll be able to do it gladly. The gospel is about what a Christian is. What is a Christian? I'd like to give you a definition tonight, a definition that is vast in its implications, and almost any other definition than the one I'm going to give you tonight is unbalanced, is misleading, is distorted. Not because I made it up, because it's here. Now, I have to do about two minutes of recap. There's some very important words here, and mainly we're going to get this out of verse 17. If while we seek to be justified in Christ, now remember what the word justified means. This is one of those places where the English word that's been chosen to translate a Greek word is really great. It's really helpful. To justify something does not mean to change something, does not mean to change the thing, but change our view of the thing. When you justify something, you don't change it, you change the view of it. Actually, I just read about this last week. It really happened. A teenager in the hall of his, in high school, in his high school, suddenly hauled off and slugged another kid, knocked him flat, knocked him cold. You know, a crowd rushed up and a teacher rushed up, and the principal who actually saw it rushed up, or at least saw part of it, rushed up and grabbed the kid and said, you're out of here. You're going to be expelled. And what did the kid say? Would you please look in that young man's pocket, he said. And they looked in the pocket, and there was a gun. And the kid's hand was on the gun, the knocked out kid. And so you see what the guy says. Yes, I did slug him, but he was about to shoot somebody. Now, he justified his behavior extremely well. He did not change his behavior. He didn't say, oh, okay, I won't slug him. He slugged him. I mean, it's, you know, it's there. It's on the record. There it is. He slugged him. He didn't change the behavior. What he did was he changed the view of the behavior. To justify something is to change not the behavior, but how it's regarded, how it's treated, see, how it's viewed. And the most astounding thing, we have to remember this, at the essence of being a Christian is this word justification. To be a Christian is when you are justified. It is so typical for somebody to say, well, when you become a Christian, what does it mean to become a Christian? Well, people say it's where you make a promise to really be good or to really live for Christ or to ask his power into your life or to really repent. Now, listen, all of those things are involved, but is it the essence? To become a Christian is not to become good. Becoming good is a result of being a Christian. it's not the essence of becoming a Christian. When you become a Christian, you are justified. It doesn't mean you suddenly stop being bad. It means you're no longer viewed in the same way. It means that your sins can no longer bring you into condemnation. It means that you're accepted. It means that you're righteous in God's sight. Now, why? Actually, verse 21 points on to chapter 3, which we're going to get to in future weeks. Why? Don't set aside the grace of God, for if righteousness could be gained through the law, Christ died for nothing. Now, what that is saying right here is righteousness, that means the righteous record. It means an acceptable record, an acceptable view. It's not something that you gain by working for it. It's received because of what Jesus has done on the cross. Jesus died, and when I believe in him, his record is transferred to me. His righteousness is transferred to me. And there's nobody who's put it better. than Martin Luther himself in his commentary on the Galatians, and this is what he writes. Listen, Christian righteousness, God imputes it to us apart from our works. In other words, Christian righteousness is passive righteousness, and all others are active. If I tried to fulfill the law myself, I couldn't trust in what I'd accomplished, neither could it stand up to the judgment of God, but I rest only upon the righteousness of Christ, which I do not produce but receive. God the Father freely gives it to me through Jesus Christ. I don't produce it, I receive it. It's not active righteousness, it's passive. I receive it. I don't develop it, it comes to me. Or as Richard Hooker put it, I read this last week, such are we in the sight of God the Father as is the very Son of God himself. Let it be counted as folly or frenzy or fury whatsoever. It's our comfort and our wisdom, and we care for no knowledge in the world but this, that man hath sinned, but God has suffered, and that God hath made himself the sin of man, and that men now are made the righteousness of God. Now, what does that mean? Here's the implications, and this is the point tonight, which I'd like to draw out the implications of. In verse 17, what does this mean about us? What is a Christian? Look at verse 17. If while we Now, let's not keep on going. Let's just look at that for a second. Who is we? Now, you know, if you just came in tonight and you haven't been part of this, in fact, even if you have been part of this, it's very easy to assume that we is the editorial we. You know, maybe Paul is saying, well, when someone seeks to be justified with, no, he's not talking that way. It's not the editorial we. because you must remember that this is the end of a summary of what he said to Peter on a particular time, at a particular situation. And Peter and Paul are apostles and they are justified in Christ. All the way through from chapter 2, verse 14, all the way down, he talks about we. We are Jews, we're not Gentiles, but we are justified by faith in Christ, not through the law and so on. He goes on through, we, we, we. And therefore, when he comes down here, it says, if while we seek to be justified in Christ. If it was the editorial we, this word seek would probably make us think he's talking about if while we try, if we're seeking to be saved. But that's not what he's saying, because we're already justified, Peter and Paul, and therefore this is what it must mean. What he's really trying to say, and we'll get to this a little later, is he's trying to say, if as we live as justified men, it becomes evident that we still ourselves are sinners, sinners, does that mean that Christ promotes sin? And we'll get to that question later. But for a minute, do you see what he's saying? Do you see what he's saying about Peter and Paul? Do you see what Paul is saying about Peter and Paul? Peter and Paul are the apostles. I think you can make a great case that they were the greatest Christians in history, apart from Jesus himself, which you can't exactly call Jesus a Christian. They're the greatest Christians in history, the greatest of the apostles. But Paul is saying, and he's doing given, and he moves on and says, okay, well, what does this mean? But here's the given. Though we're justified in Christ, in ourselves, we're sinners. See that? In the sight of God, we're justified. We're perfect. We're accepted. But in ourselves, we're still sinners. And therefore, So therefore, what is a Christian? What is a Christian? Every other religion, every other philosophy, every other worldview would say, either you're a sinner and you're trying to be righteous, or you're righteous and you used to be a sinner. Or maybe you're 30% a sinner and 70% righteous, or 50% a sinner and 50% righteous. You see, every other religion says either you are a moral failure by God. But here's what a Christian is, an honored failure, a righteous sinner, a justified sinner. See, if you don't think he's saying that, he said, wait, is that what it says? Yes. While we're justified in Christ, we ourselves are sinners. Actually, Paul says it a little, there's one place where Paul says it even more starkly. And Jonathan Edwards preached a sermon on that verse. It's Romans chapter 4, verse 5. He preached a sermon on that in April of 1917, 35. And started revival and converted a third of the town in the next 12 months. And that was a verse in Romans 4, verse 5, where Paul says this, now to him who does not work, but trusts in him who justifies the ungodly, to him it is credited as righteousness. You see that? It doesn't say, you know, if you clean yourself up, and if you kind of work your heart into a certain state, God will justify you. No, no. To the one that stops trying to work and who trusts in the one, that's God, who justifies the ungodly. When you become a Christian, you are justified, yet ungodly. You are a righteous sinner. You are an honored failure. And, of course, Luther, again, puts it perfectly. Luther's the one who came up with the Latin phrase, which just gets this in a nub. This is what a Christian is. A Christian is simul justus et peccator. Simultaneously, simul justus et peccator. Simultaneously, just and a sinner. Now, the implications of that, you're going to spend the rest of your life realizing the rest of your life saying, if you understand that, that makes you utterly different than every religious person and every irreligious person, than everyone else on the face of the earth. And it makes you utterly different from the person you used to be. Because to understand that is to understand what it means to live as a Christian. Do you remember back in verse 14? Some of you might have, but I'll recap this for everybody. When Peter was being confronted by Paul because he had withdrawn from the Gentiles. He treated them as if they were unclean. What did Paul say was wrong with that racist attitude? Did he say, your racism is against the law of God? Now, that's true, but he didn't say that. He said something that was much more far-reaching. What he said is, your racism is not in line with the gospel. And we said that night that means you have to sit down and say the gospel has implications and you have to work those implications out. But a lot of you walked out saying, wow, that's interesting, but how do I do that? Here's how you do that. The metaphor of in line shows that the way to be in line, the way to walk on a line or along a line is to make sure you don't go off to the left or to the right. The gospel is so unique because there is a left side and there's a right side. Tertullian, one of the early church fathers put it this way, he says as Jesus Christ was crucified between two thieves so the gospel of justification is always justified between two opposite errors everybody in the world and your own heart does not believe the gospel, does not understand the gospel believes there are only two ways to go doesn't believe there is a line and even though you intellectually believe the line whatever you say, I'm sure I believe that. That's really fine. You don't believe it, and I hardly believe it. In my behavior, I'm always falling off the one or the other. What are those two errors? Well, in theology, the two errors are called legalism and antinomianism. Legalism means literally lawism. Antinomianism means anti-law. But I think it'd be better to put it this way. On the right, let's say, on the right, legalism is the view that says, I'm basically a sinner trying to become righteous. I'm basically a sinner trying to become righteous. God is holy, and he's sort of loving, but you see, the holiness of God is real. The grace of God is kind of a weak concept. I'm really a sinner basically trying to be righteous. That's a legalist. That's a moralist. That's a religious person. These are the people who are always saying, and the way in which I'm going to eventually find God is I'm going to live according to the golden rule. I'm going to live according to the Ten Commandments. person. I'm going to, you know, you may say that about Christianity, you might say about any other religion, but that's what it means to be a legalist. But then on the left, on the other side, instead of a legalist, well, what do we have? Instead of the religious person, we have the irreligious person. And we have, let's call him a lovest. A lovest. This is somebody who basically says, I'm acceptable. I'm wonderful. If there is a God, as they are. And everybody has to sort of decide what is right or wrong for him or herself. Here's the legalist, here's the lovest, here's the religious person, here's the irreligious person. And here what you have, the legalist says, I'm basically a sinner trying to be righteous. And the lovest says, I'm basically acceptable, but every so often to err is human. Okay. We all try our very best. And you know, I'm basically a good person and people are basically good people. And the Bible says, if you go in either direction and everybody's going to go in one direction, the other. You missed the gospel. And here's what's very ironic. When Tertullian says the gospel is crucified, here's what it means. First of all, there are people over here who really get nervous about the gospel because it sounds too easy. People on this side get nervous about the gospel because it sounds too exclusive, too demanding, too moralistic. You see, the moralists will always think the gospel is antinomian, and the antinomians will always think the gospel is legalistic, and that's one of the ways you know you got the gospel to some degree. But, see, the legalist says, Christianity is too easy. I don't like this deathbed repentant stuff. I don't like this idea that you can just be saved by grace. Doesn't matter how you live all your life, but some person who's been a serial killer and in prison at the end of his life, he says, okay, I really confess my sins. I repent. I'm sorry. And he can go to heaven. good person. I believe you've got to be a moral person. This is too easy. I believe in obeying the law. But listen, truth without grace isn't really truth. The great irony is if you have a God that demands the law and is not a gracious God, ironically, you have not a bigger view of the law than the gospel. You have a smaller view of the law than the gospel. The gospel and only the gospel takes the law seriously. Anybody who says, oh, I don't believe in this grace for buddy stuff. I believe in being good. You haven't even read the law, or you would never say that. You don't take the law as seriously as the gospel does. Did you, anybody read in the paper the other day, yesterday I think it was, it talked about the Unitarian, the Universalist Church. And the Universalist Church, which was founded in the 1800s, they, one sociologist said these were golden rule people. These were people said, you know, you don't have to believe in Jesus and that he died on the cross and all that sort of thing. The important thing is just live by the golden rule, you'll find God. Just live by the golden rule. Anybody who says, I live by the golden rule, has never read it. Anybody who says, you don't need the grace of God, all you need to do is live by the golden rule, isn't taking the golden rule nearly as seriously as Jesus himself. Nobody lives by the golden rule. Look at the golden rule sometime. The golden rule says, you're supposed to meet the needs of other people with all of the joy and creativity, with all of the power and intensity with what you meet your own needs. You don't do that. You never could do that. The golden rule is way. Everybody in the face of the earth knows they owe the golden rule. That's imprinted on our hearts and anybody who really reads it anybody who really reflects on it realizes you can't get anywhere near it. Anybody who says I believe in a law I believe in morality I don't believe in this easy way out this grey stuff you don't believe in morality like the gospel does. You believe in a whittled down of God, which you can keep. Go read the Sermon on the Mount sometime. The whole Sermon on the Mount is there to show you not just how holy God is, but how you need a Savior desperately. So you see, Tertullian, what he means is he's saying, on the one hand, legalism, if you follow that, you really, oddly enough, you really don't really, really obey the law of God. You don't really honor it. But on the other hand, you have a person over here who says, in a God of love. I don't like the gospel because it sounds too demanding. I believe God just accepts everybody. I believe in a God of love. Now, but what kind of love? Is it a costly love? Well, they say, I don't believe in a God of wrath. I don't believe in a God who sends people to hell. In that case, when I tell you that God loves you, the reason it doesn't change your life is because you don't see what, it didn't cost your God anything to do your salvation. It didn't cost your God anything at all. It didn't bring him. See, if you don't believe in a God of wrath and if you don't believe in a God of hell, then I say Jesus Christ procured your salvation. You have no idea what he did. What did he do? The gospel says he took your wrath. The gospel says he experienced hell. Now, here's the telltale. How do you know if you're a moralist, legalist, just a religious person, or on the other hand, a kind of universalist, a lovest, you know. How do you know? Tertullian says, if this person over here, they may be very religious, but there's no transforming power in their life. You can say, are you a Christian? They'll say, of course. I'm trying very hard. There's no joy. There's no love. There's no transformation. But the person who says, I think God loves everybody, that is just sentimental. There's no transforming power in that person's religion either, whatever that might be. It's only as the hymn writer says, to see the law by love fulfilled and hear his pardoning voice transforms a slave into a child and duty into choice. To see the law by love fulfilled, do you see that? If you have a loving God and the law of God, you say, well, God accepts everybody. Or if you have a law of God, but you say, well, you have to fulfill it yourself. No, on the cross, to see the law by love fulfilled on the cross and hear his pardoning voice transforms a slave into a child and duty into choice. If there's no transforming power in your life, it's because one thief or the other has stolen the power and you don't understand the gospel. To live out a life as a justified sinner is actually much more demanding and far-reaching a way of thinking out Christianity than to try to go by the rules. The gospel, in a sense, goes all sorts of places that the rules don't go. They don't go anywhere. The gospel means that you have an absolutely unique approach to things. Let me just give you a couple here as we try to wind down. The gospel gives you an absolutely and utterly unique way. What it means to walk in line with the gospel is to remember you're both a sinner and righteous. That you're both a moral failure and absolutely loved. And I tell you, in my life, the only reason that I don't live a life of remarkable beauty before everyone else is because I'm always falling off on one side or the other. I'm either thinking of myself as a sinner and forgetting how loved I am, or I'm thinking of myself as accepted and forgetting what a wicked sinner I am. Only as you hold the two things together is there a kind of exploding energy. Only as you pull those two things together, you walk that line. Ah, for example, let me give you four or five, that's all. I'm going to have to do, you know, like a minute on each one, the most. Your self-image. Now, every other religion except the gospel will say, if you're living up to your standards, you may be humble. Pardon me, you may be bold and confident, but you're not humble. to live up to your standards, you'll be humble and meek, but not bold. But if you're sumul justus peccator, there is both a humility and a boldness at the same time. It is an absolutely unique image, self-image, an absolutely unique psychology, absolutely unique. Nothing else can possibly can produce it. Now, if that's true, first of all, you'll move out in the world, and when you come to suffering, you'll deal with suffering in line with the gospel. The legalist who feels like, I'm trying, I'm trying, I'm trying, I'm trying. When you come up to suffering, you'll deal with suffering the way Job's friends dealt with it. Job's friends said, well, if you're suffering, you must be sinning somewhere. You must be doing something wrong. And of course, what, you know, if you suffer as a legalist, you'll beat your breast and you'll say, I must be a bad person. You'll feel so awful. You'll feel so guilty. You'll feel so terrible. And you'll hate yourself. on the other hand, if you get out of the world and suffer the way the lovists do, the way most modern people do, they'll treat suffering the way Job's, not Job's friends, but Job's wife treated it curse God and die you see if you believe in a holy God who's not loving, then when you suffer you'll hate yourself and if you believe in a loving God who's not holy then when you suffer, you'll hate him but if you're simileus et peccator, you're absolutely unique one hand, you would never get mad at God because you know you're a sinner. You know that we all deserve a terrible life. Who says we have to deserve a good life? But we also know that you have been redeemed. Jesus Christ is the one who's paid for your sins, and therefore whatever you're suffering today cannot be payment. And what does that mean? It means to say, well, I guess I'm probably suffering the way Jesus is suffering. I'm having fellowship with Christ's suffering, and that is, Jesus Christ, in order to live a godly life here, suffered and if I live a godly life here, I'm going to suffer

but through my suffering God will bring out good and redemption he'll do good things in my life and the lives around me just like through Jesus, you see, once you get rid of the I hate me and the I hate him, once you get rid of remember that you're a peccator, but remember that you're Justus you see, as long as you remember both of them you'll stay in line with the gospel and you'll have a completely unique approach to suffering. Completely. Absolutely different. Let me give you one other, for example. Actually, well, how many? Forgiveness. No, I won't do the forgiveness. Let me do one more. Confrontation. If somebody wrongs you, this is close, but it's not the same. If somebody wrongs you, somebody does something wrong, all right? Some people go after the person and attack. Some people say, I'm going to get him. you attack and you humiliate them and you tell them off, or maybe you pay them back, okay? Other people withdraw. Somebody hurts you and you just withdraw. You say nothing. You go off and you lick your wounds. Now, the first approach is maybe good for you in a way, but not good for him. The second approach is, you know, it sort of, it maybe make you feel good, but it kills him. On the other hand, the second approach maybe makes that person feel good, but it kills you. The Bible says you're supposed to overcome evil with good. The Bible says you're supposed to forgive in your heart so you no longer want any repayment. But now that you're free in your forgiveness, you should go and confront that person because that's what society needs. That's what justice demands. That's what the person needs, and that's what your mental health needs. But how can you do that? Only if you're humble enough knowing you're a sinner will you be able to forgive. But only if you're confident enough knowing that you're loved will you be able to confront. Do you see that? And if you're not simul justus et peccator, if you don't work out of both, if you don't have the humble boldness of knowing I'm absolutely a sinner and I'm absolutely loved and righteous, you will never be able to deal with relationships. You'll never be able to do it. You either speak the truth without love or you'll be loving without the truth. But don't remember, loving somebody without the truth isn't really loving them. And telling the truth without loving them really isn't telling them the truth. The gospel creates a unique self-image. It creates unique relationships. It moves you out in the world in an absolutely unique way. Do you understand that? To what degree? You know, we're going into Thanksgiving. Do you know what the dynamic power of Christianity is? A lot of people said, well, if I believe I was justified by faith, I wouldn't have any incentive to live a good life. Listen, my dear friends, when somebody says, if I lost all my fear of God condemning me, I wouldn't have any incentive to live a good life. What that means is the only incentive you ever had to live a good life was fear. There's a new incentive that comes, but it only comes if you know you're both, you're a righteous sinner, you're a loved failure, and that is the dynamic of gratitude. As you come Remember this. Thanksgiving is not one more duty that Christians do. Thanksgiving is the essence of everything that makes a Christian. Thanksgiving is the dynamite, a life of gratitude. That's the engine that pulls you, pushes you out to do everything a Christian does. And I'll tell you something. Unless you see, unless you've been humbled, unless you see that you're a sinner, what Jesus Christ has done for you won't make any difference. It won't create that gratitude. Legalists aren't filled with gratitude. Lovers aren't filled with gratitude. Only righteous sinners, only loved failures. That creates that dynamite of gratitude that makes you say, let me get out there and find somebody to whom I can be what Christ has been to me. In line with the gospel, living a life of gratitude for the one who loved me self for me. That's always on your heart, and that changes everything. Go find what that means. Let's pray. Our Lord, we end that way because I pray that anyone here who says, well, I understand that, I pray that you would bring them up short. That's the only way that you'll never grow. Help us to see that this is a bottomless well into which we can look and plumb all of our lives, Help us to see that in every area of our lives, we have to ask ourselves, how are my problems deriving from the fact that I either do not see myself as loved or as a sinner? How do I see that the obstacle in front of me will only be broken through when I see myself as both loved and a sinner? Help us to see, oh Lord, how important this is and how to use it as a dynamic in our lives. We pray this now in Jesus' name. Amen.
