Today's reading is from Acts chapter 14, verses 8 through 23. In Lystra there sat a man who was lame. He had been that way from birth and had never walked. He listened to Paul as he was speaking. Paul looked directly at him, saw that he had faith to be healed, and called out, Stand up on your feet. At that the man jumped up and began to walk. When the crowd saw what Paul had done, they shouted in the Laconian language, The gods have come down to us in human form. Barnabas they called Zeus, and Paul they called Hermes because he was the chief speaker. The priest of Zeus, whose temple was just outside the city, brought bulls and wreaths to the city gates because he and the crowd wanted to offer sacrifices to them. But when the apostles Barnabas and Paul heard of this, they tore their clothes and rushed out into the crowd shouting, Shouting, friends, why are you doing this? We too are only human, like you. We are bringing you good news, telling you to turn from these worthless things to the living God, who made the heavens and the earth and the sea and everything in them. In the past, he let all nations go their own way. Yet he has not left himself without testimony. He has shown kindness by giving you rain from heaven and crops in their seasons. He provided you with plenty of food and fills your hearts with joy. Even with these words, they had difficulty keeping the crowd from sacrificing to them. Then some Jews came from Antioch and Iconium and won the crowd over. They stoned Paul and dragged him outside the city, thinking he was dead. But after the disciples had gathered around him, he got up and went back into the city. The next day, he and Barnabas left for Derbe. They preached the gospel in that city and won a large number of disciples. They returned to Lystra, Iconium, and Antioch, strengthening the disciples and encouraging them to remain true to their faith. We must go through many hardships to enter the kingdom of God, they said. Paul and Barnabas appointed elders for them in each church, and with prayer and fasting committed them to the Lord in whom they had put their trust.

We're looking at the book of Acts again. and the book of Acts is about the earliest history of Christianity. There's no doubt that if you're looking to understand what is real Christianity, what is authentic Christianity, here's the place you should start because nothing actually has the right to the name authentic Christianity more than what we see here in the earliest years of the church's history. Now, what we get to in this passage is extremely important and interesting for those of us who live in New York City. As you know, the first church was in Jerusalem and the first Christians were Jewish. And when the gospel began to spread, and you can see this up to here, up into chapter 14, in the first 13 chapters of Acts, you see a lot of evangelism being done. That is, you see Christians talking to other people about Jesus and inviting them to have faith in Christ. case, in fact, in every case up to now, what you've actually seen are Jewish Christians going to synagogues and talking to people who also believe the Bible. Because in the synagogues, you had both Jews who of course believe the Bible, but you also had Gentiles who came to the synagogue. They were called God fearers. And they also believed in the Bible. And so every presentation of the gospel up to now has actually already been, in every case, it assumes the importance, it assumes that the listener, though they're not Christians, believe the Bible. Here's the first time in which we see Christian speakers speaking to polytheists. It's the people who don't believe the Bible at all, know maybe almost nothing about the Bible. Bible. And so in a way, we actually have a picture, a better picture of how you should be presenting the gospel in a pluralistic place where people believe a lot of different things. In these cases, they believed in all sorts of different gods and they do not believe in the Bible. So how do you minister in a situation like that? The reason why it's germane and relevant to us because we live in New York City. And we don't live in a place where people have a lot of biblical belief or a lot of biblical knowledge and that sort of thing. We are also speaking into a pluralistic society. So what can we learn? Now, admittedly, this speech here is very brief. You notice it's not actually a thought out speech. It's extemporaneous. He's talking to a mob. They're talking to a mob. It's sort of cut off. When you get to Acts 17, where Paul again addresses a group of pagan Greek philosophers, we have a little bit better idea of how he speaks. Here it's pretty brief, and yet we can learn. We can learn four things about how do you do gospel ministry in a pluralistic setting. And those four things are love the needy, identify the idols, endure the hardness, and fulfill the longings. so first of all love the needy and we don't have to belabor this because we I just want to say it again just to get it across but I don't have to keep saying it with any kind of I don't need to make this point comprehensive because I think we've heard it before notice in the very beginning Paul is speaking it says here there was a man who was lame he had been that way from birth and he was listening to Paul because Paul was speaking which means Paul was teaching, he was preaching. But when Paul saw that he was lame and he was beginning to have some faith, he healed him. And so what you have here is a mixture of word and deed in ministry. Paul preaches and he heals. Now this is something we've seen from the very beginning. Jesus didn't just preach. He also healed the sick and raised the dead. He ministered in word and in deed. deed. Peter started the ball rolling in the book of Acts when he began to minister, same thing. He preached and he healed. If you were here when we were looking at Philip going to Samaria, very interesting. He preached the word, but we're also told he healed and he cast out demons. And it says when people saw his deeds, they listened to his words. When they saw what he did, they listened to what he said, word and deed. And here we see Paul doing the same thing. Word and deed both go together. Now somebody says, oh, but these were miracles, but don't get distracted by that. Because in the book of Acts, Acts chapter six, you remember that the apostles were word ministers. They preach the word, right? But they also in that early church wanted to take care of the poor widows. And so they created another group of officers. We would who did deed ministry. And that wasn't miraculous, but the point was word and deed, word and deed, they go together. When the people saw the deeds, they listened to the words. And it's as simple as this. The words of gospel ministry is, are to talk about Jesus Christ, who came here and poured out his life to save us from sin and death. But then what are we supposed to do. We say that, but then we're supposed to embody the gospel by pouring ourselves out for the needs of our neighbors. Very simple. And when they go together, they give each other credibility and, and don't over, listen, don't overdo the fact that maybe we can't always do this miraculously. I remember some years ago, uh, years ago in my little church in Hopewell, I remember a woman who became a Christian and I'm, if I remember correctly, she became a Christian. even go beyond the tithing. And she got audited. And I remember she told me that the auditor, when they finally met with her, finally said, you know, I was sure when I saw how much you were giving away that you were lying. But you know what? You're telling the truth. It's a miracle that you give so much money away. And you see, in a sense, if you live in a consumerist culture, if we're in the middle of a consumerist culture and the world sees us pouring ourselves out, giving our money away, giving our time away to meet the needs of our neighbors, it'll seem miraculous. In fact, it will be miraculous because it'll be a sign of supernatural work inside our hearts. And so we must do ministry and word and deed. First, love the needy. Secondly, though, second thing we see, and this is sort of the heart of what Paul does here, is he identifies the idols. Let's look at this passage where this brief speech starts down in verse 15, he's saying to them, look, the crowd thinks that Barnabas and Saul are Zeus and Hermes gods come down. And he says, no, no, no friends. Verse 15, we're only human. And then he says, we are bringing you good news gospel. Ah, but what is the good news? Look at carefully. He says, telling you to turn from these worthless things to the living God who made the heavens and the earth and the sea and everything in them. He has not left himself without testimony. He's shown kindness by giving you rain from heaven and crops in their seasons. He provides you with plenty of food and fills your hearts with joy. Now, the first thing we have to notice right away is how absolutely different this gospel presentation is than what we've seen before. For example, last week and also last chapter, in chapter 13, Paul preaches to people who believe the Bible at a synagogue. in Pisidian Antioch. And he's speaking to both Jews and Gentiles, but they believe the Bible, and this is what he says. He says, Through Jesus, the forgiveness of sins is proclaimed to you. Through him, everyone who believes is set free from every sin, a justification you were not able to obtain under the law of Moses. He doesn't do any of that stuff here. He doesn't talk about, he doesn't quote the Bible. He doesn't quote the Bible at all. Which, by the way, shows there is no one size fits all gospel presentation in the Bible. So here's the question. How do you show people they need Christ? If they don't believe in the law of God or the 10 commandments, they don't believe in a God of judgment. They don't feel guilty before that God. They don't believe in heaven and hell. How do you show people they need Christ when they don't feel guilty? Because see, when he was talking to the, uh, in the synagogue, he was saying, you need You try to obey the law. You're not obeying the law. And through Jesus Christ, you need new forgiveness. But he doesn't even go there. He doesn't use the word sin. He doesn't use the word law. He doesn't quote the Bible. What does he say to them? In essence, what he's saying is not, you are sinners and you need new forgiveness. What he's actually saying is, you are enslaved by idols and you need a new master.

Now you say, where does he talk about idols? Well, actually, he uses the term for idols. here and he says, we're bringing you good news. What is the good news? Good news is always the rescue, liberation. Well, what are they being rescued from? These worthless things. We want you to turn from these worthless things to serve the living God. Now, the word worthless things is a term that means idols, by the way. Now, admittedly, it's a negative term, obviously, but you see what he's saying. He says, these gods that you worship, and Zeus and all these very, these gods that you worship are worthless. And the word worthless here, actually, it's really in your face, is it not? It means empty, deceptive, ineffective, but probably most of all, it means that they promise fulfillment, but they leave you empty.

These idols promise fulfillment, but they leave you empty. now let's stand back for a minute and remember what apollytheistic society was like now it's not going to be that hard for us to imagine because we living in one right now but in apollytheistic society there was no one God supreme God there wasn't a monotheistic society uh there were many gods well how did you decide which God that you sacrificed to which you worshipped well you worshipped and sacrificed to the God that helped you so for example if you of, if you were a soldier, you sacrificed to the God of war. If you were a merchant, you sacrificed to the God of commerce. There were several of them. If you were a farmer, you would sacrifice the God of agriculture. There was a God of love and beauty and romance. There was a God of music and art. Caesar himself was a God. Now, since you didn't have any overarching allegiance, when you sacrificed to one of these gods, you were worshipping what? Well, see, you were actually worshipping if you were a merchant. You were worshiping love and beauty. You were worshiping music and art. You were saying, this is my hope. This is my meaning in life. But here's what Paul is saying. Now let me put this in a nutshell. Paul is actually saying this. He is saying, these things are dead, but this is the living God. These things are powerless, but the true God made heaven and earth and everything in it. And these gods are empty, meaning they promise more than they deliver. They always take from you more than they actually give, but my God is the opposite. The true God is the opposite. Because what is Paul saying here? He says, the true God gives you far more than he requires. Do you not know that even though you haven't acknowledged him. All of your joy is from him. All good gifts, every good thing in life that you enjoy is from him. Every good thing is from him. He's been doing this even though you don't acknowledge him. He's the opposite of these other things. And therefore, in a nutshell, you could say this. Paul is saying, everybody lives for something. See, now I'm talking to us. Because without too much of a tweak, is a gospel for New York City too. Everybody lives for something. Even if you say, well, I don't have some high allegiance to God. I'm not religious. Everybody lives for something. Everybody's sacrificing for something. Everybody's saying, something is my meaning in life. And whatever that is, is your master. You don't control your own life. If you're living for love and romance, you don't control your life. You're controlled by the people who you want to love you. And if you're living for money, you don't control yourself. If you're living for power you don't control yourself, political power. You are controlled by power or by money because you have to do anything it takes to get it and to keep it. You are not in control of your own life. You are always mastered by whatever you live for. And only, Paul says, my God, the true God, the living God that if you serve him, will liberate you. Because all these other gods are worthless. They take more than they give. But the true God, if you get him, he will satisfy you. He already fills your heart with joy. Think if you turn to him. See, that's what he's saying. And actually, though Paul doesn't get a chance to finish it, here's what we know how he could finish it.

He says, the true Lord is the only master that if you get him, he will satisfy you, not leave you empty. him, he will forgive you. Your career will never forgive you. If you're living for a career and you don't get the career you want, it'll punish you the rest of your life. You'll hate yourself. But see, my God, Paul says, the true God became a human being and gave himself. In other words, the true God is the only master who became a servant and died so that we can be forgiven. so the true God is the only God who if you get him it satisfies you and if you fail him he will forgive you all other gods are shams now by the way let's let me conclude this point it's very important first of all notice of course Paul thinks that Gentiles these people of course he believes that all people are subject to the law of God that all people have to obey the law of God. He says so in Romans 1 and 2. I'm sure that if the people began moving toward him, he would have explained that to them. But he starts where people are. Paul doesn't just beat people over the head with things they don't believe and says, well, you ought to. He starts where they are. He comes on inside. He says, okay, I see that you're worshiping these other gods. Fine. Aren't they leaving you empty? I can tell you about a God that will fill you up because he's the true God. These other guys aren't real. They're not true. They're worthless. They're empty. They didn't make the world. See, that's what he's doing. He comes inside, takes something in their own belief system, and he shows them that on the basis of their own system of beliefs, they need Jesus Christ.

And actually, by the way, you might, just to let you know, here in New York City for going on 25 years, this is definitely a very important way to go you're trying to talk to people about faith and they say, why should I need Jesus Christ? If you say, well, you know, you're disobeying the 10 commandments. You know, for example, you're having sex outside of marriage and you're doing this and that, you know, you're, you're not, you're spending all your money on yourself. I know you lie and cheat and therefore you need Jesus because you need to be forgiven. And what's the person going to say in New York? They say, well, now what? Everybody has to decide what is right or wrong for him or her. You can't go imposing your moral standards on me. See, now we're into this argument about moral relativism or not. But if instead they say, why do I need Jesus? And I say, everybody's living for something. And whatever you're living for is mastering you. And it's the reason why you're angry, reason why you're disappointed, because the thing that you're building your whole life around that you love most in life is actually a slave driver. But I know a true God, Jesus Christ, who is the only God who, if you get him, will satisfy you. And if you fail him, will forgive you. And you know what they say? Hmm. Doesn't mean they believe, but right away they begin to say, well, you're putting your finger on something that's wrong with me. And that's what Paul does right here. Identify the idols. Thirdly, endure the hardness. Near the end of this passage, when Paul is going through and encouraging the disciples. He says in verse 22, we must go through many hardships to enter the kingdom of God. How do you like that? We must go through many hardships to enter the kingdom of God. Now, that cannot mean that you have to suffer to go to heaven. If you suffer through your suffering that makes you qualified for heaven. He doesn't mean that of course because that would contradict everything else anything else in the New Testament. But then what does it mean? Well, I think it means two things. In fact, most people think it means at least two things. First of all, in one sense, it means that we don't grow into Christ likeness generally without hardship.

The things that actually give you joy are things in the long run is dependence on God, God, humility. Humility is such a relief after years of trying to save face and nurture hurt feelings and hurt ego all the time.

Humility, dependence on God, the ability to pray, all the things that actually in the long run make you a peaceful, joyful person. We never find those things because we never spend enough time with God to find those things Hardship happens. And therefore, hardships, you might say, drive us right into the kingdom of God. Otherwise, we sort of play around the outside and we don't really become like Jesus. But I don't think it only means that. It's also true, and I'm realizing this from my studies lately, that some of the early church fathers like Cyprian and Ambrose,

when they were writing to non-Christians about why they should become Christians, one of the things they would say, they said many things, One of the things they said is, look at us. We suffer and die so well. And what they meant is that Christians took suffering with a patience and with a graciousness and a lack of vindictiveness in a way that was pretty shocking to onlookers. On the one hand, it meant, I mean, I think it was Cyprian who talked about this, was that when the great plagues came to the Mediterranean basin and people were just literally dying in the streets, and took care of people. Everybody else ran for the hills. It's a historic fact. And one of the reasons why was, Cyprian says, Christians, we're not as afraid of death. We're not as afraid of suffering. It's not the end of the world if we suffer. And of course, many of you know that Christians also were pretty famous, the early Christians, for that when they were thrown to the lions or when they were being crucified along the Appian Way or something like that, they would sing hymns. They faced death with a certain poise and grace and joy and lack of vindictiveness that stunned people who looked at them. And therefore, how we suffer, how we handle suffering goes a long way toward whether we ourselves become more and more like our king and also has a lot to do with whether other people find the kingdom. And I must say, recently I've been reading a fascinating study by an anthropologist, a cultural anthropologist who's not a Christian believer at all and who studies all the different cultures of the world. one of the things that I think stunned me actually was when he said you know the worst culture in the history of the world for equipping its people in how they handle suffering is our modern secular culture and he says see he says Hindu culture says well the meaning of life is to live a good life and eventually escape the cycle of reincarnation and go into heavenly bliss so Eastern cultures say that he says the older pagan cultures the Greco-Roman and the Northern European pagan cultures used to say the meaning of life was to be a man or woman of honor, glory and honor and do the noble thing. That was what the meaning of life was. He says other religions say the meaning of life is live a good life and you go to heaven. Christianity is somewhat different because it doesn't say that you're saved through your suffering, but what it does say is that now that you've been saved, you want to show Jesus your love for him By being willing to suffer. Patiently. For him. Since he suffered so amazingly for you. As a way of becoming more and more like him. He says every other culture. In a sense. Tells people a story about life. The meaning of life is heaven. The meaning of life is virtue. The meaning of life is honor. The meaning of life is. Being like Christ. The meaning of life is. Every culture tells a story. Suffering can help you get there. See, every culture actually tells you a story about life that if you suffer as painful as it is, it helps you get there. You know, suffering can make you more noble. Suffering is a way to make you more Christlike. Sa da. But this anthropologist said, modern secular culture says the meaning of life is to be happy and free, to live the life that makes you happy. Secular culture says, oh, nobody can tell you what is right or wrong. You have to decide what is right or wrong for you. The meaning of life is to have the freedom choose the life that makes you happy. This anthropologist says, think about it. If that's the meaning of life, then suffering cannot be part of that story. It can only be an interruption of that story. Suffering cannot be meaningful. It cannot be something that we can face and make us better. It's nothing but a disruption of what we want and therefore the only things to do in a secular culture when suffering comes is to run away and if it happens, just melt down. This is a cultural anthropologist saying, there's never been ever a culture that is more wimpy about suffering than our culture. And if Christians, considering that we have a completely different approach, maybe Christians, arguably, Christianity is the best resource for handling suffering. Because it doesn't put pressure on you and say, well, if you suffer, you better really do it well. That way you'll go to heaven. Christianity doesn't say that. You're saved by grace. But what Christianity does say, what does it say? okay. It says Jesus Christ suffered. Not that you might never suffer, but that when you suffer, you'd become like him. I mean, there's a, uh, an ability on the one hand to know, okay, I don't have to be stoic about suffering. I can cry and weep because I'm not, I don't have to prove myself through suffering. But on the other hand, Jesus Christ suffered before me. He is with me right now. I know that if I believe in him, the suffering is going to turn me into something beautiful. If Christians cannot look really different from the people around us when it comes to how do we deal with our hardships, if we don't have a poise and a grace and a patience and a joy in our hardships that everybody else finds surprising, we're never going to reach our pluralistic society. And I have to ask, do we really believe the gospel? And lastly, but not leastly fulfill the longings look here verse 11 the whole riot starts because when the crowd saw what paul had done verse 11 they shouted in the lycaonian language the gods have come down to us in human form now

mainly that's a mistake right it's like paul and barnabas are tearing their clothes and saying no, no, no, we're just human beings like you. So mainly it's a mistake. But think about the irony of this. Because there is a God who came down to us in human form, isn't there? So was the crowd just totally wrong? Mainly wrong. But I want you to notice something. The reason why they believe that these guys were, you know, gods was because of their legends. and every single culture is filled with legends about the supernatural. Legends about gods appearing, legends about heroes, legends about all sorts of supernatural happenings. Every single culture has its fairy stories or its myths, its legends. And they're filled with all sorts of strange things, right? And yet there's, in some ways, they're all after something. You know what it is? is J.R.R. Tolkien wrote a very important, I think, essay called On Fairy Stories. And in it, he tries to account for the fact, and this is a fact, by the way, that really irritates the literary elite, that in spite of the fact that we live in a culture that doesn't believe in fairy stories, doesn't believe in the supernatural, doesn't believe in miracles, doesn't believe in anything like that, we are still almost obsessed with stories that are called fantasy.

J.R.R. Tolkien himself, Lord of the Rings, it irritates, it tremendously irritates the literary elite that people read Lord of the Rings is so popular. That's not serious fiction, they say. Those are children's stories. But Tolkien, in his essay, said that human beings have got four longings that realistic fiction cannot satisfy. It's almost like we've got an itch that realistic fiction can't scratch or relieve. And he says those four things are this. It says human beings want to be able to escape time and death. We're fascinated by any story that talks to us about surveying or traversing the halls of time and escaping time and death itself. secondly human beings have always been utterly fascinated by the idea of speaking to communing with communicating with non-human beings thirdly

we just love stories that tell us that once you get a love that heals everything you'll never ever have to lose it and fourthly we want to see the complete triumph of good over evil complete. Now, realistic fiction can't do any of that, right? Because we don't believe any of that stuff, right? We don't believe any of that's going to happen. The secular world tells you that this life is all there is. There is no supernatural. There are no spirits. There are nothing. And when you die, you rot. That's it. You'll never have love without parting. You'll never be able to escape death. There certainly is nothing, no non-human beings to talk to. you'll never see the triumph of good over evil never and yet tolkien says deep in us even when people say that can never happen and even when the stories we're reading we know are fiction it satisfies us why is it even in our culture we can't get rid of this passion and the answer of course is the christian answer is that this is a memory trace of ultimate reality because you know if you go to the beginning of Genesis we're told the human race originally we were talking to non-human beings, to God, to angels and who knows what else

we did have love without parting we didn't have death there was no evil to triumph over good and we know that is ultimate reality and we can't stop wanting it or sensing it or being fascinated by it And yet, the legends and the stories that are told about it are always distorted, right? They always come out kind of, you know, genie in a bottle, three wishes. Those are fascinating stories. And they help us. And even here, these guys, what is this? The gods have come down to us. Why? Because they heard stories about the gods coming down on human form. These are legends. These are stories. And they're exciting because, oh my goodness, maybe it's actually happening. Maybe we can escape death. Maybe we can see a miracle. something. Maybe we can break out of the box. We know that this is an ultimate reality. But here's what Christianity does, everybody. Think about this. The secular world says it's all a fantasy. None of those things that you long for will ever happen. And of course, the old myths and legends always get it kind of wrong. They're always distorted. You know, wishes and magic and here, let's do sacrifices to these gods who have come down and maybe they'll do miracles for us. But guess what? Jesus Christ is the God who did come down in human form, not to just be another deity who does miracles. He came down to break the barrier between us and the ultimate reality. He broke through that barrier. He's died to forgive us, so that if we believe in him, do you realize that someday you will talk to people, beings who are not human? love without parting, you will escape death. You will see the triumph of good over evil. It's all going to be true. It is true in him. Why don't you want that? If a person says to me, I can't be a Christian, why? And I listen to them, you know, I can't be a Christian. I say, why? And they tell me, if they say, well, when I see what Christianity teaches, I wish it would be true, but it's just too good to be true. You know, then I say, yeah that's a problem let's talk because at least you understand what Christianity is but if you don't want Christianity to be true you don't understand it I would actually have to say because it fulfills the deepest longings that's what it promises

believe the gospel let us pray our father we are so grateful to you that you have put us in a place like this New York City a very pluralistic place a very polytheistic place where people believe all sorts of things and where people do not believe in you and heaven and hell and the law and the judgment seat and yet we have all sorts of resources you've given us in the gospel there's not a person on the face of the earth who can't be touched who can't be reached with gospel ministry we pray that you would make us a congregation here in the east side that knows how to do this right here. We pray that you'd make all the churches of New York City and the churches of the cities of the world into churches who increasingly have to be facing the same kinds of society and need to be able to do what Paul and Barnas were doing here in other cities we see in the book of Acts. Please make us effective gospel ministers where we live. We pray it in Jesus' name. Amen.
