Read with me from Psalm 95, which is the place that we are taking our teaching from this morning. It's printed in your bulletin. Psalm 95, very famous psalm. It's called the Venite because it starts come, which is the Latin for come. Come, let us sing. It's one of the great psalms in the history of the church that guided us in our understanding of worship, which is our subject this morning. Psalm 95, the whole thing. Come, let us sing for joy to the Lord. Let us shout aloud to the rock of our salvation. Let us come before him with thanksgiving and extol him with music and song. For the Lord is the great God, the great King above all gods. In his hands are the depths of the earth, and the mountain peaks belong to him. The sea is his, for he made it, and his hands formed the dry land. Come, let us bow down in worship. Let us kneel before the Lord our maker, for he is our God and we are the people of his pasture, the flock under his care. Today, if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts as you did in Meribah, as you did that day at Massa in the desert, where your fathers tested and tried me, though they had seen what I did. For 40 years I was angry with that generation. I said, they are a people whose hearts go astray, and they have not known my ways. So I declared on oath in my anger, they shall never enter my rest. This is God's Word. Now, we're looking at the Ten Commandments, and we've come, started last week, with the Second Commandment, and we're looking again this week at the Second Commandment. do not make any graven images and do not bow down to them for I want your worship. That's the paraphrase. Don't bow down to graven images for I want your worship. And so the second commandment is about the importance of worship. Over the last 200 years, in the West, Western civilization has backed away from religion. It's backed away from what would be called superstition. Back during the French Revolution, In the Cathedral of Notre Dame in Paris, the goddess reason was crowned in the place where they worship. Why? Because this is the way the words have gone. This is the mindset. It's gone something like this over the years, the last couple hundred years. When we were primitive, when human beings were primitive, we needed God, we needed religion to deal with nature, which seems so much bigger than us. but now we know there is nothing bigger than us. There is nothing beyond us. Everything can be examined. Everything can be explored, explained, and controlled. There's nothing bigger than us. We don't need religion, empirical investigation, reason will take us to a utopia. Nothing's bigger than us, everything can be observed, explained, and controlled. However, things haven't turned out to be as great as promised. The 60s saw the first college generation, and it certainly won't be the last, that began to realize that our culture, our society, as a result of that mindset had become what we called plastic. Remember that? The plastic culture. You see, look, Look, is there nothing beyond us? Recently, I saw on a TV program a doctor who said he believed that soon we would be able to discover the one or two chemicals in our neurosystem which makes us fall in love. He says basically we know now, or we will probably know soon, that love is completely caused by one or two chemicals in our neurosystem. He says what a breakthrough this is going to be. When we have finally figured it out and isolated them, no longer, we will no longer have to be controlled by love. We will be able to be in love when and to the degree we wish, with whom we want. And when we want to be out, we can stop it. He says, finally, now don't you see what this is? Nothing is beyond us. Not even love is beyond us. Nothing is above us. Nothing is bigger than us. Everything can be observed, explained, and controlled.

My generation of college students, the 60s generation, was the first one that began to not only talk about the plasticity of culture, but it was the first one that actually began to use drugs, not for the old reasons. See, the poor has always used drugs out of despair, bear, and the professionals have always used drugs out of stress. We started using drugs because we were empty, spiritually empty. Everything is commodity. Nothing is bigger than us. There's a crying out. There's a crying out more and more. Nobody can deny this for the unseen, for the spiritual, you see, for the mystical. Aldous Huxley, who before, in his early days, believed the old idea. Everything. Nothing is bigger than us. Everything can be examined. Everything can be explained. Everything can be controlled. By the end of his life, he had turned Buddhist, and he said the only thing that will save humankind from destroying itself is mysticism. He was crying out for the unseen. He says, I'm not just a body, and in fact, I'm not just an intellect. There's more to reality. There's more to me. What's this all mean? The Bible says the reason for this is that we're not just made of earth, but we're made of heaven too. And we need to worship. What is worship? Closure with the heavenly part of us. Closure with the heavenly. Intimacy with the infinite. We need it. We must have it. No matter how you slice it, it's an absolute, deep primal human need? Worship. Well, what is it? Three things this wonderful psalm tells us about worship. One of the ways you could look at these three things is these are three requirements for worship. You could look at it that way. Another way to look at it is these are three parts to worship or three definitions of worship. It doesn't matter. There's three things it tells us about worship. First, this tells us that worship is entering the presence of God. God. This tells us that worship is entering the presence of God. Verse 2, and actually verse 6 too, verse 2, what is all the hubbub about? Come, let us sing for joy. Let us shout aloud. Why? It's so important that we have to rouse ourselves. We're calling to ourselves, reminding ourselves to not come in preoccupied, to not come in an indifferent way. Where are we going? Before Him. That's what verse 2 says. Now, that's the New International Translation that we have printed in the bulletins. Let us come before him. Well, I mean, I think it's somewhat weak. It's saying, let us come literally before his panim, his face.

Let us come before his presence with thanksgiving. So, this is telling us, first of all, that the greatest thing in the world, that's why we have to shout, that's why we have to rouse ourselves, that's why we have to make sure we don't just sort of drift in indifferently, is to come into the presence of God. That's what worship is. We're coming into the presence. Before the face. Now, what does that mean? Every so often we have to mention this. We did a series on the Psalms back in the fall. We had to mention this. Of course, in one sense, God is everywhere. So since God is everywhere, and since we know he doesn't have a literal hand, doesn't have a literal foot, doesn't have a literal knee, mean when it talks about the face, and this is the answer. The face of God is the place where you can have a relationship with God. It's the place of self, it's the place of deep intimacy, it's the place of self-revealed relationship. Have you ever had the thrill of somebody coming to you and saying come, venite. I want to get to know you. I want you to get to know me. And that person sort of unlocks the natural shutters over every heart from the inside. And you can tell this person is letting you all the way in. Unless you've gotten awfully used to that, unless you are not a very humane person, unless you're not a very sensitive person, when somebody does that to you, you sense that you are in the presence of something sacred every human being's in the image of God opening up saying, come in, I want to know you. That's what it means to actually have someone turn, in biblical language, his or her face toward you. It's a tremendous metaphor. If, for example, not too long ago I went into the Guggenheim and if you're looking at great art, you feel like you know the artist. You feel like it. You say, say, boy, this must have been a pretty angry person. Or this must have been a very sad person. Or this must have been a very happy person. You get to feel like you know the artist. But those of you who are artists know that it's a lot more complex than that. That even though you can learn an awful lot about you from looking at your art, for me to make my decision as to what kind of person you are without having ever gone to your face, without ever having met you. Your art may maybe all over the world, but your face is one spot. And it's a place where I have to go if I want to know you personally. And the complex reality of what a human being is means that I must not think I know you personally just through your works, just through your presence, maybe all over the world. You may be a very famous artist. I have to come and know you personally, and you have to open up to me or I don't know you.

And you see, I was listening on TV the other day. there was in some news program they were talking about great places to have vacations. And they were doing a special on some place out in Texas, some wonderful national park. And they interviewed one woman who'd come from New York, come to this great park. And she says, the beauty out here, the beauty, you don't need a church when you're out here surrounded by all this beauty. And what she's really saying is, because I see the art of God, I know him personally. She can't mean that. She's not thinking properly. It's not logical. You can have a general sense of who God is by looking at his works, but you have to know a person at his or her face. And therefore, whenever the Bible talks about the face of God, this means that there is access into the very heart of God that's possible. It's possible. It's possible for you to know that. It's possible for you to access God himself. It's possible for God to come and say, I want you to know me, and I want you to open to me, and I want to open up to you. I want you to come into me, and I want to come into you. Now, John Owen put it this way. John Owen was a great Puritan writer. And John Owen said, access into the presence of God is this. When you open to him and he opens to you, and you rest in him as the fulfillment of your deepest desires.

I'm going to try to explain that all the way through the rest of the sermon, but let me just show you for a moment how wise that is. He says, let's think about two people for a minute. I've talked to plenty of people over the years who have said, I was married, but I never had access to that other person. That person never really opened to me, and in a way, I never opened to him or her. John Owen says, you haven't gotten access until you've opened, the other person's opened, and you're resting in the other person as the fulfillment of your desires. If I am trying to get to know somebody, I open up and I share, first of all, my fears. You haven't opened if you don't share your fears because you need security. And then I share my aspirations, my hopes, because I need dignity. And then I share my failures, my failures, because I need somebody

weak and where I'm wrong. And you see, that deep level of relating, unless I'm sharing my fears and my aspirations, unless I'm sharing my failures and my confusions and my weaknesses, I'm not being vulnerable to that person. I'm not opening. Now, if I open to somebody like that and the other person says, oh, uh-huh, if the other person doesn't respond from the heart, I feel absolutely that I have been used. And I close right up. But if I open up and the other person opens up from the heart and gives me assurances and acceptance and guidance and challenge from the heart, I've connected. You know what the presence of God is? The presence of God is when you relate to God in such a way that you open up like that and you sense him responding. You feel his acceptance. You feel his assurances. You feel the challenges. You sense that there's an exchange going on. In other words, Christians know the difference between saying their prayers and praying. Christians know the difference between going over through the motions and truly having access. Christians know that worship is not just knowing God in general through his works, a kind of general sense of, yes, I know how great God is, but you sense he is dealing with you at a deep personal level. where you need assurance, they're coming from his heart. When you need guidance, they're coming from his heart. You're disturbed. You're thrilled. You're awakened. That is the experiencing of the presence of God. Now, let's move on to talk about what that means. But that's the first thing. Worship is not just going to the art gallery, sort of looking around and seeing how great God is in a general way. Worship is not going to a national park. That's not worship. Though it might lead to worship, oh, so easily. Worship is knowing that there's a way in. Worship is realizing there's a door. Worship is coming into the presence of God, sensing and feeling him dealing with you at a deep personal level. Okay? That's number one. That's what worship is. Now, that immediately leads you to ask, how does that happen? See, there are plenty of people probably in this room who have thought they have worshipped simply because they've come to a worship service, and there's a sense in which, of course, of God, when you come to a service of worship in a church, whether you like it or not, whether you even know it or not, because whenever the congregation is united and they are invoking Christ's name and they're asking God to be present and you're singing God's praises, in a certain sense, you certainly are in the presence of God. And yet, the fact is there's an awful lot of people who have never had anything more than a kind of an aesthetic experience. Great music. You know, that's great. Great music. You can have an aesthetic experience or a sentimental experience because you're there with your friends or you're there in a familiar place, that's not necessarily actually meeting God face-to-face.

You know, to meet God face-to-face is a solemn thing. Deuteronomy 5, Moses said to the people, when God descended onto Mount Sinai and his face dwelt there, not just the general presence of God, but the sacramental revelation presence, the relational gate into God. Deuteronomy 5.4, Moses says, the Lord spoke to you face to face at the mountain from the midst of the fire. Fire. When you're in the presence of God, when you're before the face of God, you always know it.

So how do you know if you've come into the presence of God? How do you know? What is the marks of it? Just a good feeling? Just any particular kind of emotion? The passage tells us the way you know you've come into the presence of God, and this is the second point, worship is not just entering the presence of God. Worship is also truth on fire, being moved by the truth. The key word in all of Psalm 95 is a little preposition, for. They're praising. They're extolling. They're shouting aloud. Why? They're praising and extolling. Where did they get this tremendous exaltation? How did they experience this wonderful thing? For, see, every time, let us come before him with thanksgiving and extol him with music and song. For the Lord is the great God, the great King above all gods. In his hands are the depths of the earth. The sea is his and he made it. Come, let us bow down and worship. Let us kneel before the Lord, our maker. For he is our God and we are the people of his pasture and the flock under his care. Look what's going on. Truth is always the source. Modern people don't get this. Most modern people right now who are spiritually searching in the spiritual wasteland that our culture has become are going into subjectivity. They're going into subjectivity. They're going inside. The Bible shows us right here that if you want to really experience the mystical and experience the ultimate, you've actually got to start with the objective. Not just any objective. The phone book's objective. Don't start with the phone book. Start with objective truth about God. This psalmist says the reason he's exalting, the reason he's bowing, the reason he's experiencing all this is he's looking at the truth about God. The first four, you notice the first four? It says, for the Lord is a great God. And verses 3, 4, and 5 and 6 are all about…3, 4, and 5 are all about God as creator. See that? The Lord is the great God, the great King above all gods, in his hands are the depths of the earth. The sea is his for he made it. They're exalting in God being a creator, being a great Lord over all of creation, having made all these great things in the mountains. But then verse 6 says, now come and let us bow down for he is our God and we are the people of the pasture and the sheep under his care. Now instead of God as creator, we see God as Redeemer. Great creator. That's the reason why he's so majestic in verse 3, 4, and 5. Forbidding, don't you think? And then suddenly the psalmist says, but he is our God. The word our means as great as he is. We're his, you see. He can say you're mine, but on the other hand, he's given himself to us, so he's our God. He's our shepherd. He's our Redeemer. or what's going on here. The psalmist is not coming in and getting all hyped by the music. There might be great music in the temple. There was. He's not getting all hyped by the pageantry, by the solemnity, by the idea, by his friends. It's the truth. He knows the truth. You have no nonsense about saying, well, who knows what we believe? Who cares about doctrine? Who knows whether the Bible is right or wrong? But everybody has to find God in his or her own way. See, the psalmist is saying it's the objective truth that is the basis for my having found God. Four, in other words, this is the anatomy of an act of worship. It is from the truth catching fire in your heart. Let me put it another way. When the truth catches fire, that's worship. Or here's another way to put it. When you suddenly discover that the truth of God shows you what God is worth, worth, shows you his value, and then you give him what he's worth, that's an act of worship. See, you're giving him what he's worth, song, your heart, your praise, your whole life. Why? Because you see he's the creator and you see he's the redeemer. Example, imagine a woman whose mother had given her a lot of jewelry, you know, and she just inherited it from her mother. And as far as she knew. Most of it was interesting. It was a little bit antique. She had no idea it was worth that much, but she used it. One day, a friend that used to work for a jeweler looks at this thing, this one thing she's wearing, and says, that's awfully unusual. My, that might be really valuable. You better get it appraised. So she takes it to the appraiser, and the appraiser stands up, absolutely astonished, and hands it to her and says, do you know what this is? Do you realize whatever. Do you realize what this is worth? This thing is worth millions of dollars. Now, she takes it in her hand and this is what happens. First thing that happens, the first thing that happens is emotional. She looks at it and she has seen this thing many, many times in her life, but she's never looked at it like this. She's never looked at it and realized its value. It's caught fire in her heart. Emotionally, she's moved by it, but that's the first. Then secondly, not only is she emotionally changed, but she's volitionally changed because the way in which she behaves now toward this thing is very different. It used to be she'd throw it on her dresser when she was done with it, and half the time she didn't know where it was. She'd say, where is that particular green necklace? You know, it would go well with this. Where did I put it? I mean, that's how she spent the last couple of, you know, the last few years in her relationship. But now she knows not where it is every second. She never forgets where it is. It's under safeguard. Her actions toward it has changed. But that's not all. Her emotions are changed because they're inflamed with the knowledge of the value of this thing. And secondly, her actions are changed. But thirdly, her whole perspective has changed because she thinks about her entire life differently now. She says I'll be able to do this. I'll be able to do this. I'll be able to buy this. my whole career. She rethinks her entire life. She sees her entire self in a new perspective because of the value of this thing, which had never sunk in. That is exactly what happens when you worship God. The difference between just knowing God is great and seeing his beauty out in the desert or in the mountains, the difference between a general knowledge of God and worship of God is this. When the truth catches fire of how valuable he is, it inflames your heart. You say, I never looked at him like this. And that immediately leads to changes in your life and finally a whole new way of looking at yourself. So, for example, how do you know you've worshipped? If you are worried and you come in and you're just, you're worried about something going on in your life. You come in and you're sort of given a lift for a while. Oh, the minister sort of seems to really believe. And the music was good. And it was so nice to see so many young people in Manhattan actually seeming to believe as well. It just makes you feel better. And so you feel better for the day. And then the week shows up. And you're just as worried as before. you did not worship. Worship means that during this service, some thought, some verse, some truth about God catches fire, and you say, I always knew he was like this, but now I know. It comes through. It comes home. It begins to relate to you at a deep level. The Holy Spirit takes the truth, and maybe you've heard this many times, but now you suddenly see that it deals with you and your condition. It's been made personal. That's what the presence of God is. That's what John Owen means. You open about your fears, and the truth comes through to you, and you look at God, and you've never seen his value before. But then it does change the way in which you live on Monday and Tuesday. You say, I had forgotten how great God was. I had forgotten how wise God was. And I'm going to remember, and I'm going to face the week differently. And you do, and you think about everything differently. The anatomy of worship. Truth catching fire. desire being struck by how worthy God is, his value, and then giving him what he's worth. Has that happened to you? I'll never forget a great little story R.C. Sproul used to tell. R.C. Sproul is a very, very good speaker. He used to be a professor of philosophy at Westminster College in western Pennsylvania. One time he spoke in the chapel and he preached. And when he preached, He was very excited. Afterwards, a girl came behind him after the chapel and said, Boy, this is really wonderful. This is wonderful. You know, most of the professors here are just professors. You know, they're dry and they're dusty and they're never excited about everything. But you just got me so thrilled. You got me so excited. You really believed. You really knew what you were doing. You were really going somewhere. And R.C. says, Thank you so much. What helped you the most about, you know, of all the things I said, what helped you the most? what did I say? She had no idea. She couldn't say, remember a single thing. All she knew was how excited she was. Worship is not coming and saying, ah, the solemnity, ah, the joy of it, ah, the pageantry. God is saying, what did I say? What has come into your heart and moved you emotionally, volitionally, psychologically, intellectually, in every way? What has caught fire. See, that's what the psalmist is doing. He's saying, he's the creator, and yet he's our God. He's this great person. Don't you see what's going on in verses 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7? He is juxtaposing the greatness of God with the tenderness of God and saying, if he was just tender or if he was just great, that'd be one thing. But this great God is this tender God. This God with all power loves me as if I'm a little sheep, and he's going crazy. That's how you worship. objective truth, born in. That's how you sense the presence of God. Now, lastly, worship is entering the presence of God. And then secondly, worship is truth caught on fire, being moved by the truth. But thirdly, worship is surrender. One thing that's pretty amazing is to take a look at the verse that says, come let us kneel, let us bow down. Do you know Everybody says, oh yes, worship. You kneel and you bow down. Of course, you're used to that. Stop and think for a minute what that posture means. This is the posture of surrender. You don't kneel and you don't bow down to somebody unless you're completely trusting them because when you kneel or bow down, instead of standing on your feet, that person can absolutely knock your block off.

And when you kneel and you bow down, what you're really saying is no more negotiations,

I'm yours. Now, this is the hardest part about worship. Up to here, if you're a typical person in the modern world who has discovered a lack of intimacy, a lack of spirituality, coldness, and you're searching for spiritual reality, you're searching for spiritual warmth, here's the problem. You're a modern person, and modern people, as much as we're running from the idea of technology, which turns everything into commodity, and we hate that, you know, yet we are consumers now. Technology has turned us into consumers, and that means that when we come to God, we want the mystical without the commitment. We want the high without the surrender. Analogy? Traditionally, you couldn't have the mystical thrill of sex without the commitment of marriage, traditionally. In other words, if you wanted the mystical thrill of sex, you had to be willing to make yourself completely vulnerable socially, legally, and economically. That's what marriage is. When you get married, you give up your individual rights, in a sense. You give up your complete independence. And that was always understood. If you want to have the high of sex, you have got to be willing to be completely committed. Make yourself vulnerable to the other person. Right? You have to lose your independence. That's generally not how it is, at least not in a place like New York. Nowadays, what we say is, I want the mystical, but I don't want to actually be that vulnerable to you. I want the high, but I don't want to be so committed that I lose my economic and lose my social independence. I don't want that. You see, technology has turned sex into commodity. It wasn't possible before technology. Not very possible. It's not on a wide scale. And therefore, that's how we look at sex. Now, when we bring God, we think of it as the same way. And it will not work. In other words, we say, I want high with God. I want worship. I love all this talk about the presence of God. I love all this talk about his truth coming in. Truths of God. Burning like hot irons. Comforting like a warm breeze. Healing like a warm embrace. I love the idea of the truth becoming alive and helping me with my fears.

but I don't want to have to be completely committed to God. I don't want to give up my own right to say what's right and wrong for me. I don't want to get up like this and make a public promise and join a church full of people who are probably imperfect. I don't want to rigorously submit myself to a study of the biblical truth of God, an objective thing. I want to have the right to judge what is right and wrong for me. In other words, you want to sleep with God Marry him.

You want to have the high, but you don't want to be committed. You don't want to give up your independence. And you can't know God like that.

I guess he's just old-fashioned.

But think about it. You want the mystical oneness without every other kind of oneness.

You don't want the legal oneness. In other words, you don't want to be committed. You don't want to be vulnerable. But you want him to open to you, but you will not open to him. That's what personal relating is. Don't you see? You can't treat God like that. God does not come in easy-to-use, ready-to-pour packages. That's what you want. I want worship. I want the high, but I don't want commitment. It doesn't work like that. You can't come up and say, I would like three pounds of God, please. Not so much that I can't do what I want. Not so much that it makes me give away my money in large proportions, and not so much that it limits who I get intimate with or marry, not so much that it cramps my style, just enough so it helps me get over the humps. And he says, if anyone will know me, you must deny yourself and follow me. He says, no one who does not leave behind everything and hate his father and mother can be my disciple.

Don't harden your hearts. That's how the psalm ends. You know why? If you harden your hearts, you'll never know the rest of true worship. If you center things on you so that God has to, you see, submit to your will. If you think the purpose of prayer and worship is to bend God's will to meet yours, you'll never know his rest. If you harden yourself to forget that you're fragile, to forget that you're aging, to forget that you're mortal, to forget that you're dependent. dependent. You know, maybe you're having a good year. And therefore, worship makes no sense. But worship never happens without helplessness. Worship never happens without vulnerability. Worship is saying something is bigger than me. Something that I can't control. Something I can't observe and explain and control. There is no adoration. There is no worship. There is no connection with God unless you surrender and say something is bigger than me.

Are you ready to do that? Can you do that? It can only be done through Jesus. When Jesus Christ died on the cross, the veil in the temple was ripped from top to bottom. Back in the holy place was where God's face was. You couldn't get back there without it being fatal until Jesus died on the cross, which meant that by believing in him, you can have access to that presence. I was reading a book by a man who was a, he's a Christian writer. I don't know him personally. He was a Christian writer. And he said one of the things that bothered him most about being a father was all of his life he had suffered from motion sickness. And unfortunately, God, in his humor, had given him two little sons who loved merry-go-rounds. And he says every single time he'd go to a park, his masculinity and his fatherhood, you know, it was all on the line because his sons would say, let's go on the merry-go-round. You've got to come with us, Daddy. You know, he'd just about die. And he said one day, he was at Central Park and he was about to get on the merry-go-round one more time because his kids said, oh my gosh, one more trip. And he said, I can't do it. But it turned out that the merry-go-round operator seemed to recognize the signs, I guess, on his face. And he says, why don't you take a ride with me where I always take the rides? And the writer said, yeah, how do you get on this thing, you know, time after time after time all day? I don't see how you can say it. Hey, you can do it. can you stand it? And the guy says, let me show you the secret. Come ride where I ride. And he took him into the center. He says, you know, it's not so bad in here. It turns, but it doesn't turn nearly as badly. Here's where the power is. Here's where the gears are. Here's where the controls are. You come on all the way in here. And the writer said, he turned it on, and for the first time on a merry-go-round, I had rest. Worship is recognizing it's your job to go to God and make him the center. It's not your job to say, God, why don't you make me and my needs and my agenda the center? Worship is through adoration and reflection going to the center. And if you do, and don't harden your heart, you'll have rest. Let's pray. Thank you, Father, that it's possible through Jesus, to enter through the veil and to know you personally. We thank you that access to the presence through Jesus is possible. We thank you that there your truths burn and comfort and embrace and heal us. But we thank you that it only happens through submission. And therefore, I ask that you make it possible for us to kneel and to bow. Maybe not even physically right now, but in our hearts. I pray that everybody in this room this message would realize that they need to kneel and bow if they're going to get rest. Oh, may no one harden their hearts, but open wide to the one who is our peace. It's in his name that we pray. Amen.
