As I mentioned, there's a lot of interest on the part of critics over the secular nature of this cantata. It doesn't seem to have any religious doctrine in it, and of course we all know that Bach was a very devout Christian, and it's pretty interesting that he seemed to have put his Christianity on the shelf when he did this cantata for a wedding. But I don't think he did. In a way, I don't think anybody can. Your views about human nature, your views about whether there is a human nature or what human nature is, humanity's place in the universe, whether there's a God, right and wrong, no artist can put these things aside when he or she puts together a piece of art. It's just impossible. And I would like to point out, and I'd like to show, that a very distinctly Christian view of marriage is wedded in there, is embedded in here. It may not be overt. I think in order to look at this, pardon me, I should say, if we look at this, we'll learn something about Bach, something about Christianity, something about marriage, and something about how one's worldview affects your art. And I think that'll be a worthwhile evening if we're able to learn something about those things. I'd like to point out that even in this so-called secular cantata, there is a couple of themes in which Bach is actually giving us, not maybe on purpose, but he can't help it. He's giving us a peculiar, in a peculiar way, a Christian view of marriage as opposed to the traditional view of marriage or the emerging, at the time, but now emerged, view of marriage. He gives us neither the ancient traditional view of marriage or the modern individualistic view of marriage because on the one hand, against the traditional ancient views of marriage, he shows us marriage as a romance. But as against the modern individualistic understanding of marriage, he gives us marriage as a journey. Now, let me show you what I mean. First of all, the cantata is clearly giving us a really romantic view of marriage. How do I say it? It's gently sexual in its imagery. And the idea of the sun being…you notice the sun, his heart is won by the earth, and then he comes nearer to win her heart. And as the sun and the earth come together, you have this imagery of fertility, of spring, of new green, of blossoms, and so on. It's gently sexual in its fertility imagery. But no matter how you look at it, it's ecstatic. It's joyful. The lovers are in love with each other. They are delighted with each other. And so you have here an ecstatic view of marriage, a romantic view of marriage. Now, some of you are out here saying, so? What's so big about that? And if you ask the question, and I'm sure some of you would, you're forgetting what an innovation it is, how new an idea it is that people should get married on the basis of mutual personal attraction. The idea of mutual personal romantic attraction as the reason you should get married, as the normal reason people get married, is a very new idea. It did not exist in the ancient northern European cultures, in the Greco-Roman Mediterranean it's not there. Now, caveat. First, I am not saying that romantic love didn't exist. All cultures have wonderful stories and tales and myths of romantic love. What I'm saying is a new idea, what was considered a crazy idea in the ancient times, was the idea that the normal reason people should get married is because they liked each other. What a nutty idea. the reason why. Now, scholars disagree. I'm going to…in a minute, I'm going to show you…I'm going to give you a theory. Scholars agree on two things. Did a little research for this talk, and they agree on two things. Number one, nobody really had an idea that mutual romantic joy and attraction should be the normal basis for marriage until the Middle Ages. And then the idea grew in southern Europe, in France in particular, and it grew in the allegorical love poetry and music of that time. And almost everybody agrees that the first place that the idea of romantic love being the normal basis for marriage, it grew up in the Middle Ages, 11th century, 12th century, and it grew out of Christian soil. Now, what people don't seem to want to understand, agree on, excuse me, not understand, what people don't agree on is why. But here's what they do agree on. You had to do something to promote the individual in order to even have the idea that romantic love should be the basis for marriage. One of the things that's hard for us to understand when we read ancient texts is how unimportant the individual used to be. It was your family. In other words, no one dreamed of personal success or personal prosperity or personal significance. You were nothing without your family. You dreamed of your family moving ahead, your family moving up. Everything was done for your family. You were nobody without a family. And in other words, the idea that you should marry somebody just because you liked her or you liked him was unbelievably selfish. You had to marry somebody who helped the family, who helped the family's interests, who continued the family line. The idea was the family decided who you would marry, and you did it, and that was that. And the idea of romantic love, that you would personally choose somebody that you were attracted to, could not begin until someone demoted the idea of the human family as the ultimate significance and the ultimate purpose of your life and promoted the individual. And that began to happen, everybody agrees, in the Middle Ages, and it happened out of Christian soil. But we don't know why, or I should put it this way, we can't agree on why. Everybody agrees that's what happened, but nobody can quite agree why it happened. Why was Christianity? Christianity invented romantic love. Every culture had romantic love, but it was out of Christian soil that grew the idea that would be the normal way in which people got married. Why? Now, what I'm going to do to provoke you a little bit is I'm going to give you a theory, the one that I like. I want to tell you right off the bat that not everybody agrees with this, but it's a fascinating theory. If Stanley Hauerwas recently, he's a theologian and teacher at Duke University. He was recently named by Time magazine as the leading theologian in America. Just happened this year. He thought that was stupid. Nevertheless, they did it. And I'm only telling you that because he's a very, very respected thinker. He teaches social ethics. He teaches theology and so on. And he has a very extremely interesting point. And he's going to give us his reason why the romantic ecstatic view of love and of marriage soil. And he says simply this, I think we cannot overlook the fact, he says, that one of the clear differences between Christianity and all other religions is Christianity's entertainment of the idea that singleness can be a paradigm way of life for its followers. Paul and Jesus both said that some people will choose not to be married and that this can be a good thing. The implications of this have seldom been appreciated, for in a certain sense, The absolute necessity of the family. Now, the family is not something we must do in Christianity. Christianity, in a certain sense, prepared the way for the romantic view of marriage by setting the institutional form necessary to make marriage only voluntary. Now, listen carefully. Hauerwas is saying something that really can't be denied in this case. Christianity was the first, the only major religion, and the first religion, the only major religion that was founded by a single man. A single person, Jesus. Not only that, the other major establisher of Christianity, St. Paul, was also a single person. Do you realize how radical that was? All founders of other religions, of course, were very married with scads of children, and they fit in with the classical idea that you are nobody without a family. You're nobody unless you're somebody's husband or somebody's wife. You're nobody unless you're somebody's father or somebody's mother. You're nobody. You're not a moral person if you're not married. And along this new world religion that we're permanently single. And what Hauerwas points out, he says, that is so radical because that was the first religion in the history of the world that says you don't have to be married to be a whole person. You don't have to be married to be significant. It took away the idea of the moral necessity of marriage, and as a result, by making marriage

voluntary, it could become romantic. Since you didn't have to get married, married, you better get married, why not get married to somebody you like? Now, what Hauerwas answers the question, though, is why would Christianity have done that? Why would this be the first religion, history of the world, to say that family is not everything? And here's what Hauerwas says. He says, in Christianity, marriage and family, like the life of singleness, simply became different ways of fulfilling the ultimate vocation of every Christian, which is to build a particular kind of community, the new community embodying God's future. The ultimate family is that, and you can build it up either as a single or a married person. This made the romantic view of marriage possible by setting up the institutional form necessary to make it voluntary. Now, I mean, I know we're all in different places here, and I'm not assuming everybody by any means here would be a believer in Christianity, but let… so let me just give you a quick summary. Christian idea is that at the end of time, Jesus Christ will return to restore the world. Unlike other religions that say that the goal of history is that at the end of history we'll leave this heaven and earth and go into a kind of immaterial heaven, Christianity believes The other way around, that heaven, at the end of time, will come down and renew the earth. And that the earth will be renewed. And all the brokenness of society, all the injustice, all the poverty, all the disease, all of that, will be renewed and restored. And Hauerwas is right in pointing out that, in the meantime, the main job of every person who believes that, every person who becomes a Christian and believes that, our main job is to create a community of people that is a sign of that coming renewal. A community of people that are like a pilot plant of healed human relationships. They'll be only partial, but significantly healed as a foretaste and a sign of what's coming. And it's that community that's your real family. And it's a relationship to Jesus Christ as your ultimate spouse or your ultimate brother or your ultimate parent that really makes you significant. That's the place you find the significance that you're looking for in the family. And that's what makes the family no longer a moral necessity. what he is actually saying is it demotes it. Now, you may buy Hauerwas' theory or not. One thing you cannot miss is the fact that Christianity was the first religion to radically question the moral necessity of having to be married, and therefore, I think he's probably right, it opened up the idea of voluntary marriage, marriage only if you want to, and that was radical. And that brought the ecstatic and romantic view of marriage in. It completely comports with the Christian view of doubt, Bach, being a deeply Christian man, was able to write this as an outflowing and an expression of his view of the world. So on the one hand, the Christian view of marriage, unlike the ancient and traditional views, was a romantic one. Marriage is a romance. But on the other hand, there's another theme in this cantata, and it begins to emerge as you leave, as you get near the end. It moves away from the imagery, you notice, of the springtime and the ecstatic imagery, and it begins to actually provide some lessons. And it begins to talk about the importance of making marriage, unlike spring, last. You notice what's interesting here? It says, practice loving. It's better than flora, springs, perishable pleasure. So, first of all, Bach is saying, as wonderful as it is to liken marriage to spring, spring comes and goes, not marriage. And then look down a little further. It says, let the bond of chaste love, bond, a promise, you see, a tie, a bond that keeps things together, unlike spring, which comes and goes. goes, it says, let the bond of chaste love make you free of uncertainty and change. May no sudden happening knock you away or knock you apart. And then lastly, and we're especially going to see this in the piece right after the lecture, the offertory piece, the whole idea behind marriage in Bach is the idea is that it's a covenant of two people to stay with each other to the end, to go on a journey together. In Bach's understanding, in the Christian understanding, marriage is not just a romance but a journey. Now, here's what's interesting about this. On the one hand, ancient people made the family too important. In the Christian view, modern people make the individual too important. See at one time, society thought it was absolutely ridiculous to get married on the basis of romantic feelings. feelings. Today, society thinks it's ridiculous to stay married without romantic feelings.

Christianity has a different way of looking at this. The Christian understanding of marriage, on the one hand, is much more romantic than the ancient, but it's much less sentimental than the modern. Again, let's go back to Harwas. Harwas says something here, and I know he's trying to get your attention. When you first hear it, you're going to say, that's outrageous.

you're going to say that's outrageous. All right, he's trying to get your attention, so let's listen, all right?

Harwas. Equally destructive as the moral obligation ethic, remember that? That's the idea that says you have to be married to be a moral person. Equally destructive as the moral obligation ethic is the modern self-fulfillment ethic that assumes marriage and the family are primarily institutions of personal fulfillment necessary for us to become whole and happy. Okay, now listen to this. The assumption is, today, that there is someone just right for us to marry, and that if we look closely enough, we will find that just right person. This assumption overlooks a crucial aspect of marriage. It fails to appreciate the fact that we always marry the wrong person.

We never know whom we marry, we just think we do, or even if we accidentally do marry the right person, just give it a while, and he or she will change. Listen, for marriage, being the enormous thing it is means we are not the same person after we've entered it. You are looking at a prospective mate long and hard, but you're looking at the person as he or she is not married to you. you. Marriage is such a radical thing that the moment you marry, deep changes have to happen, so you can't be sure before you marry who you're going to be married to in five years. The primary challenge of marriage is learning how to love and care for the stranger to whom you so often find yourself married. Okay, you say, look it, I agree in the way he's pushing, but not much. In a way, he's exaggerating, but not much. What is he saying? Here's what he's saying. He is saying the purpose of marriage, unlike the modern idea, which is you look at somebody and say, here's somebody I can have fun with. The purpose of marriage is to marry somebody you want to go on a journey with and you want to stick with through thick and thin. Lewis Smedes, who is an old man, he was also another theologian, but he was an older man when he wrote this. He puts it like this. He says, when I got married, I had a smidgen of sense of what I was getting into with my wife, but I have come to see this. My wife has lived with at least five different men since we were married, and each of the five has been me. The only connecting link with my old self has been the memory of the name I took on that wedding day. said, I am he who will be there with you. When I slip off that identity, we will hardly find ourselves again. The only bond that gives us any stable identity over the years is our promises and our commitments. Now, somebody thinks I'm about to say and see there's too much divorce. I'm not going to say that. Now, listen carefully. People over and over again fail to see what is so radical about the Christian view of marriage and how different it is from the other ones we have out there. In the traditional understanding of marriage, there's no grounds for divorce basically. I mean, even if there are technically. The traditional idea of marriage is I've got to stay married. I've got to be married. You know, I have to put on a front. I've got to cover it over. The traditional idea of marriage was marriage was the ultimate. Family was the ultimate. There was no grounds of marriage. You don't find that in the Bible. Moses granted divorce. Jesus granted divorce. You don't find that in the Bible. So I'm not here to rail against divorce because I don't have the idea of the moral necessity ethic, but we also don't have in Christianity the self-fulfillment ethic, and here's what that means. Hauerwas is saying, and Lewis Smedes is saying, on the day you get married, you commit yourself to a journey, and you say, I'm going to go with you on that journey. I see people constantly being dropped when they've lost their looks, or when they've lost their money, or when they just lost being fun people to be with. Why? Because they weren't married for the journey. They weren't chosen for a journey. Now, question. What is this, in the Christian understanding, where is this journey to? And what resources have we got to take, to go on it? What is this journey to, and what resources do we have? And here's where it is. Number one, Where's the journey going? When you encounter Christ personally, when a person converts, when a person becomes a Christian, there's instantaneously some remarkable things that happen. Even immediately, there's a joy, there's a freedom, there's a purpose, there's a hope. There's all kinds of incredible things that happen almost immediately, but the Bible tells us it's just a foretaste

of something unbelievable, infinitely greater to come. Every one of us is like an acorn, and we know it. Everybody knows there are things inside us that we want to be, that we ought to be, and no matter how hard we try, we just can't seem to get them out. It's a secret shame that all of us have. We aspire to unbelievable things, so far from it. We know there's something in there. We know there's great stuff in here. Well, the Christian claim is this. God is the soil in which you have to be planted for all that glorious stuff that you know is in there to come out. And to the degree you're planted in Him, to that degree it comes out. And there is a future glory self that is in embryonic or acorn form in your world, in your heart, and you need to go to the place, you need to put yourself in the soil so that future glory self will be released. Now, nobody put this better than C.S. Lewis, and he says it like this. He says, God can make the feeblest and filthiest of us if we let Him into a dazzling, radiant, immortal creature, pulsating all through with such energy and joy, and wisdom and love as we cannot now imagine. A bright stainless mirror which reflects back to God perfectly, though on a smaller scale, His own boundless power and delight and goodness. The process will be long and in parts very painful, but that is what we are in for, nothing less. But here's what's so astonishing. St. Paul in Ephesians 5 cross-references that, that, the journey that God calls every individual on, if we let Him, He can turn us into that. He can turn us into that glorious future self. St. Paul in Ephesians 5 cross-references that with marriage, and here's what he says. He says, "'Husbands, love your wives as Christ loved the church and gave Himself up for her to make her holy, cleansing her by the washing with water her through the Word to present her to Himself a radiant bride without stain or wrinkle or any other blemish. Here is the Christian idea of marriage, and on the one hand, it's unbelievably non-sentimental. You never marry the right person. But on the other hand, it's unbelievably glorious. It's neither traditional nor modern. Here's what it is. It's not just, if you have this in mind, that you fall in love romantically with what the

but you also begin to fall in love with what you can tell God wants that person to be. And you look at them and you say, I'm falling in love not just with what you are, which is great, but what I see you can be, what I see you could be. Flashes of your future attract me. And on a wedding day, you commit yourself and you say, I want to be there. be there when you're perfect. I want to turn to you and say, I always knew you could be like this, and I want to know that I have been part of that. On your wedding day, you say, I want you to be part of the vehicle of my redemption, as it were, okay, in the ultimate sense, not in being saved from your sins, but in the ultimate sense. I want you along on the journey toward beauty out of my blemishes. That's what marriage is. And today, I commit myself to doing that with you, no matter who I become and no matter who you become on the way. And that's the journey. That's where we're going. That's what Ephesians 5 talks about. That's what the journey is. Now, how do you get there last? I mean, in other words, Christianity gives you an understanding that marriage is a journey, but Christianity also gives you two very important resources Number one, expectations.

If you don't know marriage is a journey, you're going to be shocked. You're going to be shocked. If you don't get your expectations, for example, that statement by Hauerwas, were you shocked by it?

You shouldn't be married or you certainly shouldn't get married unless you agree with it. I mean, I know this is a lecture, and this is kind of a dogmatic thing to say, but I'm not speaking to you as a lecturer. I'm not speaking to you as a theologian. I'm speaking to you as a married man.

An old married man.

You may be a fearful person with a tendency to great anxiety. You may be a proud person with a tendency to be selfish. You may be an inflexible person with a tendency to be demanding. disciplined person with a tendency to be unreliable. You may be a perfectionistic person with a tendency to be very critical of other people. You may be an impatient, irritable person with a tendency to hold grudges. You may be a cowardly person with a tendency to twist the truth to look good. Now, your parents have seen it. Your siblings have seen it. Your friends have seen it. Your roommates have seen it. And they might even have talked to you about it, but you kind of shrugged it off. You kind of know about it, but you don't really know about it. You don't really know. You think they've exaggerated. They don't really understand you. And then you get

And now every one of your blemishes that created little problems for you in the past, it now creates a huge problem. And next thing you know, you're saying, why am I having all these confrontations? Why am I having all these confrontations? You think it's your spouse. It's marriage. It's marriage because it's a journey. Because if marriage is a journey toward beauty out of your blemishes, of course you're going to see your blemishes. You're really being brought into by marriage into confrontation with your?.. with your spouse. You really you're going to make shipwreck of it. So the first thing Christianity gives us is it changes our expectations. But the second thing Christianity gives us is it gives us a model. It gives us a resource for the journey, and this is the ultimate resource. I think it's very interesting. Here is the sun in this cantata, and he's attracted to us down below. He's attracted to the earth. And, of course, we also know, and certainly Bach knew, that the ultimate example of this was the Son of God. And He came. Why did He come? He was attracted. He so loved the world that He gave. John chapter 1 says, Jesus Christ came to His own. So He came to us. He was attracted to us. He loved us. He saw what we could be. He came to us, just like Phoebus came to the earth.

But we put him on a cross. I mean, this is the Christian story. And we jeered and we mocked and we rejected him. And when he was on the cross, looking down at us, betraying him, denying him, killing him, in the greatest act of married love in the history of the world, he stayed. he stayed, and he brought us home. In other words, what you have in Jesus Christ is the ultimate spouse who says, I'm going to take you home. I'm going to stay with you. I'm going to bring you to that place. There's a certain… and Jesus is the… it's only when you know that Jesus has done that, not in a general way, not in a kind of, oh, I believe Jesus died for people's sins in some general way, if you've experienced that, He has done that for you. Then in a marriage, you're able over and over and over to say, you're making this very hard on me, but I made it hard on Him, the One who loved me and promised that He was going to stay there with me. He forgave my sin when I wronged Him. I can forgive yours. He covered my sin when I was bad at Him. I can cover yours. I'm not really sure how else you stick with a journey unless you see somebody else gone through far worse than you ever will go through for you and has brought you home. Now, do you see deep inside this beautiful cantata, you've got both the ecstatic romantic view and yet the covenantal journey view of marriage both together. Now, one last point. This is New York, and there's people out there, and here's what you're thinking. I'm not married, so what am I, chopped liver?

But you're forgetting something. There's one more resource, one more very, very, very big resource, and what's that? One of the very, very big resources, if Christianity is true, and of course, you know, this is a resource in the faith, So, I'm just lifting it up. If Christianity is true, then you've already got a spouse, and he's already vowed, I will never leave you or forsake you, and all you've got to do is vow back. He's already been at the altar. He laid himself on it. And there he said, with all that I am and all that I have, I give myself to you, to be there for you, to bring you home. He's made the vow. Every individual, Christianity says, that makes a vow back has the only spouse that really you need, the only spouse that really can bring you home. And don't forget, the reason why singleness is a possibility in Christianity the way it wasn't in any other religion is because Christianity has both got this glorious cosmic view of marriage, It's your sacrificial service to your spouse's future glory self, and you're on your way to the end. And yet it's so down to earth because it says no human spouse is ever going to satisfy you like Jesus, and here's the one spouse you really need, and he's available to anybody, married or unmarried. You know, at the very end of every wedding sermon I ever do practically anymore, I look down at the spouse. I look down at the people, and there they are, just resplendent, looking gorgeous. And I always say, well, you look good today, but I want you to realize it's all downhill from here. And I said, here's why. I said, you know, I've got a picture, 27-year-old picture, of me and my wife on my wedding day. I keep it back in the bedroom now, because when anybody even sees it, here's what they say. They look up and they say, is that you?

So St. Paul says our outward body is wasting away, but inwardly we're being renewed day by day. So I can look at any two people who are just looking beautiful in front of the altar at any given wedding service and say, what you really need is a spouse who is going to adorn you and bedeck you and bejewel you and beautify you in a way that will last, not like Flora's perishable pleasures. pleasures. I say to all married people, be that person to the other one. But I say to all people what the Bible says, what Christianity says, and that is you've already got one who has already pledged to go on that journey with you. All you've got to do is vow back, and he'll do that to you. He'll do that for you. And that's the Christian understanding of marriage, incredibly non-sentimental, yet unbelievably cosmic and glorious at the same time. And you can basically out of, Bach can't escape it because it's part of his own view and part of his own worldview. Now, let me tell you what we're going to do after this. I'm going to pray in a second, and as soon as I'm done with my prayer, real brief, we're going to have an offertory. The offertory is actually a time in which those of you who come here regularly can give to support the ministry, but if you're a guest here, we're not out for your money. Don't even worry about it. We're going to hear one more piece from Heidi and from some of the musicians. But first of all, let's pray.

Father, I'm grateful for the magnitude of Christian marriage. I would be the first to admit that before everybody here that I'm only now coming to figure out the great resources that the Christian faith gives me as a married person. and I'm also only now coming to understand the great resources the Christian faith gives to single people for this journey. We thank you for the idea, and we thank you for the direction, and we thank you for the model, and we thank you for the power of Jesus Christ, and we pray that you would help everybody here tonight reflect on what we've learned in such a way that it leads them closer to their goal, to the end of that journey. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.
