The passage, which is pretty familiar, I think, to most, and yet, let's read it. It's printed in your bulletin. It's Matthew 6, verses 9 to 13.

This then, says Jesus, is how you should pray. Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us today our daily bread. Forgive us our debts, as we also have forgiven our debtors. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one. And this is God's word.

Now, years ago, I read an interview that really stayed with me a long time. Every so often, I refer to it because it has multiple applications. It's pretty easy to see today. I remember reading an interview of a man who was in prison for life, and he had an interview with a reporter. The reason he was in there was that some years before that, he had been traveling too fast at night on a dark road, and he'd run over a little boy.

And as soon as he realized what he'd done, he put his foot on the gas, and he sped off. And the little boy died in the dark. Because, as many people said, because nobody stopped. In other words, if he'd stopped, there was a good chance if the boy had gotten quick attention, he might have lived, but he died in the dark. Well, that man, the hit-and-run driver, was found. The evidence was there, and they discovered the evidence, and they led, they followed the evidence and the clues, and they found him. He did not turn himself in. He was discovered. He was arrested. He was tried. He was convicted. He was put in jail. He was prosecuted, quite justly, I think, to the fullest extent of the law. And he was living the rest of his life virtually in a jail. And his life was ruined. And to the reporter, he said he had been thinking about this, and he gave this insight. He said years before, when he was a fairly young boy, his father had a watch that he kept in the top drawer of his bureau, that it was a prized possession, that he never really took out hardly. And this boy, when he was a little boy, he went in and he pulled the watch out, got it out of the handkerchief, and as he was playing with it, he dropped it and broke it. Put it back in the handkerchief, put it back in the bureau, put it back in the drawer, went away, said nothing. Later, the father found it was broken, and he came out and he brought his children together. I guess there were a number of them. And he says, I want to know who did it. I want to know who did it. And the little boy never said a thing. And he told the reporter from then on, whenever he got in a tight place, he just refused to face the music. He learned the best way to deal, at least he learned, he thought, the best way to deal with situations like this where he'd have to swallow his pride or face the music or admit he was wrong or pay the price was to hide, was to lie, was to not face the music. And he said to the reporter, I failed all those little tests until one day the big test came, the big exam, and I fell. Because you see, at that point, deep down, his lack of integrity and his cowardice had become instinctive. And when he saw what he had done, he immediately tried to leave. He left. He hid. And his life was ruined. Jesus Christ knows that life is filled with tests like that, little ones and huge ones. And he says the only way that you're going to come through them is if you seek God, if you go to God, and if you regularly say, Lord God, deliver me from evil in the tests of life, I'm going to come into these tests. I ask that they might not eat me. I ask that they might not go right into the mouth. Don't let me go all the way in. Don't let them devour me. Deliver me from them. This word, and of course, you know, it's translated here temptation, lead us not into temptation. The Greek word that is used here since the New Testament, the Bible was written in Greek, it's a hard word to translate because it's a very full word. It's the Greek word pyrasmon, which sometimes is translated test and sometimes is translated trap. And it's a hard word to translate because here's why. A good test can also be a trap. It depends on you. A real good test can also be a temptation. It depends on you. I remember some years ago there was a... I was in the course and at the very beginning of the course the professor said, I know how most of you people work. You kind of slough off for half or even three quarters of the course and then you cram it at the end. I want you to know that you will not master this material like that. It can only be mastered incrementally. And therefore, I am not going to tell you when the four tests that I'm going to give you this semester will be administered. He didn't do it. He gave pop major quizzes. And it was his way of saying, I'm not going to tell you. It could happen any time. First of all, that means that you better come to class every time. And secondly, you better keep up. And you know, on the one hand, it meant that if you did keep up, well, the tests were wonderful in a sense because they kept you honest. And they showed you when you were making progress and where you still needed to work. And they held you accountable and they really kept you going. But if you were letting it slide and if you were trying to bluff, it was a... Those tests are... Those tests were traps. They revealed you, you see. See, a test shows you what you really are. And if you are in denial, the tests are devastating. You know, you may think, I'm being real good with my eating. And then you get on the scale. See, the test. What is a test? A test shows you what's really in you. It shows you where you are. And if you are out of touch with reality, tests can be devastating. Tests show you what's in you. And if you're dropping the ball, if you're nurturing wrongdoing and evil, tests are traps. What Jesus says is, go to God and say, Lord God, don't let my tests, the inevitable tests of life, become traps. Don't let my tests be traps. Deliver me from evil in the tests of life. They're going to come. But I promise you, they're not going to come. I pray that they may not eat me. I pray that I might not be sucked all the way in. Lead me not into them. Don't let me be devoured by them. Deliver me from evil. Think about it. How are you doing right now? Are you, right now, going through and failing the little tests? And are you setting yourself up for some failure of some big one in the future? How can you be delivered from evil in the tests of life? Well, Jesus tells you. And as he tells you what to do about it, if you break it down, we'll see some very, very practical ways in which we also can be ready for the tests of life. Let me show you what they are. Let me just give you four very practical ways of dealing with the tests of life. They're all here. Look, first of all, number one, the first way to be sure that you can handle the tests of life is to expect them. This is a brief point, but it's very practical. One of the reasons Christians are never to be surprised by tests. Christians are never to be shocked by the fiery trials that come upon you. Never. Jesus puts this in the Lord's Prayer. What does that mean? The Lord's Prayer is a model for how you're supposed to pray all the time. Jesus, I don't think, is saying that every time you pray you have to recite the Lord's Prayer. Jesus is saying this. Whenever you pray, this is the structure. And therefore, Jesus is trying to condition us to see trials, to see tests all the time. A test is a circumstance which draws out what's in you. He says, I expect you to be constantly praying about them and always seeing them. A Christian is someone who learns to expect them. See, there's two ways, in a sense, to expect. Little tests, we miss little tests because we don't even see them as tests. The Lord's Prayer is a way of getting us to focus and look at our lives and realize these things are there. We think they're irritations. We think, why in the world do I have a boss like that? Why is my spouse going through this season he or she is going through? We see them as irritations. Jesus says, no, look at them, they're tests. They're ways for you to respond with honesty, to respond with courage, to respond with compassion. You think they're irritations. No, they're tests. You're supposed to expect them. We're supposed to see them. We're supposed to see them for what they are. Ways of keeping us honest. Ways of moving us along. Ways of mastering the material of life.

But Christians are also not only supposed to see the little tests and not be blind to them, but Christians are supposed to expect the big ones. It says in 1 Peter chapter 4, do not be surprised. This is a command from the Bible. Do not be surprised when the fiery trial comes upon you. A fiery trial, the big trial. Christians are not surprised, are never shocked. I tell you that a lot of the discouragement you go through in the face of the troubles that come upon you, sometimes 50, sometimes 75, sometimes 90% of the trouble you're having is surprise over the fact you're having trouble. It's not the trouble, it's your surprise about it. How could this be happening to me, you say? How could this be? Why is it happening to me? And a lot of the reason why you're down in the dust about it is not the trouble itself, but your reaction to the trouble. Christians are not shocked. Do not be surprised when the fiery trial comes upon you. Here you are at work, and somebody comes up to you and says, I want you to keep a lid on what you know. Do not tell the truth or you will not only lose this job, but I will see to it that you never work again in this town. It's a fiery trial. In fact, you're surprised because you find yourself wanting to cave in. You're disappointed in yourself. It's a fiery trial. What are you going to do? One thing is you're going to be surprised. The other thing is you're not going to do is you're not going to be surprised. You're not going to say, how could this happen to me? Let's just say you help somebody out financially in a pretty big way. A person who you think is a stellar person, a person of character, a person who keeps his or her promise, and that person takes you to the cleaner. It's a fiery trial. You're amazed at how violent your thoughts are. You're amazed at how you start to withdraw from people, how you don't want to help anybody anymore. It's a fiery trial. See, it's testing you. It's bringing out the worst in you. It's giving you an opportunity to come through and to change and to grow or else it'll be a trap. But it's a fiery trial. Why does this happen to me? Christians don't do that. Not if they've got their theology down. See? Or let's say you have this aspiration for a career and it takes some kind of physical dexterity. Maybe you're willing to give up. You want to be an athlete. Maybe you're a performer in some way. It takes physical dexterity and you come up lame and your career is over. Fiery trial. You're amazed at how bitter you are. You're amazed at the suicidal thoughts. Fiery trial. Christians are not shocked. Most people are and here's why. I think there's something pretty amazing about this. You know, you have very, very conservative people. Conservative, moral, very religious sometimes people. And over here you've got very, very liberal people. Free lifestyle, you know. Do your own thing. As different as they are, the one thing I have found as a pastor is they're absolutely united on this fact. They have a naive understanding of life and it goes like this. Good people who live good lives will have nice lives. Bad people who live bad lives will have difficult lives. That's the way it should be. That's the way things really are. And they're amazed when they find that good people often have bad lives. And bad people have good lives. As different as those people are, they're absolutely bent out of shape when it comes to this. Because they're naive. They're simplistic. Christians are not. Why not? Because Christians look at the love of their life. The only man who really truly was a good man, Jesus Christ. And they see him living a life of alienation and of rejection. A victim of injustice and oppression. Who dies a horrible death. See, Christians are fixed on Jesus. And when they look at the very best person living one of the most difficult lives ever, they realize that the cross now is the fundamental structure of life. Things aren't that simple. In the hands of God, deaths lead to resurrection. And seeds die, but they come up flowers and mighty oaks. And coal goes under and comes down. And gold comes under pressure but becomes a diamond. And ore goes into the fire but becomes pure gold. And we know that's what the cross tells us. That the way to resurrection is through death. And the way to redemption is through sacrifice. And we know that here's Jesus saying, servants are not above their master. Christians are not shocked. Lead us not into temptation. Deliver us from evil. We pray that all the time. We expect it. We are making ourselves ready for it. We're preparing for it. And it's very practical. Do not be shocked. If you are shocked, you still don't see the cross. You don't understand the cross. You don't understand the cross is the fundamental structure of the way life goes in this world as long as history continues.

Jesus Christ, the best, had the hardest life.

Follow me, he says. Christians aren't shocked. All right. Second thing. The second thing we learn here is not only we're supposed to expect tests, but secondly we're told that in tests the real enemy is evil, not pain.

Look at the petition. This is the second thing you've got to keep in mind. When you get into the test of life, your enemy is not the circumstances. It's not the discomfort. It's not the suffering. It's not the pain. That's not the enemy. That's not the thing you're praying about. It's evil. Now, you know, there's a couple ways of translating this. You'll see that the translation we have in front of you says, deliver us from the evil one. The Greek word is in such a form that it could be translated from evil or from the evil one. It doesn't matter. It either means deliver me from doing evil or deliver me from doing what the evil one would have me do, which of course is evil, so it's the same thing. You notice if you only had the first half, if you only had the first petition, lead us not into temptation. If that's all Jesus said for us to say, you could get the impression that he's saying, get me out of here. Don't ever let me be tested. Get rid of the circumstances. Never let me be in trouble. However, the second half is a restatement. Lead us not into temptation, but rather, it's another way of saying it. It's a positive way to say it, but it's the same. Look, deliver me from evil. That's what it means to escape temptation. That's what it means to pass the test. Jesus is saying, recognize this. Let me speak to people who say, I'm a Christian and I know I'm a Christian, and then let me say something to people who aren't sure they're Christians or know they're not, alright? First of all, to those of you who know you're Christians and you say I'm a Christian, notice this. Jesus Christ is saying, the only thing that really can hurt you is sin. Ten tons of suffering can't hurt you. One ounce of sin can ruin you. Look, when coal goes under pressure, it turns you into a diamond. When your tests come upon you, if you respond with honesty, if you respond with compassion, if you respond with unselfishness, if you respond with faithfulness, it'll just turn you into a diamond. It's not the circumstances, it's not the difficulties that are your trouble. If you respond to your situation with impatience, with faithlessness, with bitterness, with selfishness, it'll ruin you. Don't you see? You won't be a diamond. You'll be powder. The fact is, it's not the pain, it's not the circumstances. There's nothing wrong with saying, oh Lord. See, there's a hint of that. Lead us not into temptation. There's a hint in there of saying, Lord God, do not hurt me. Do not give me more than I can bear. Lord God, please remove this circumstance. I don't think I can bear it. But the second part shows you what you're really after. But the main thing I say, this is Jesus, you know, take this cup from me. But the most important thing is, I want to do your will. Pain can't hurt me. Sin can. Ten tons of suffering can't hurt you. Because if you respond to it with courage and integrity, it'll just make you into something glorious and beautiful. One ounce of sin will destroy you. It's the sin that's the real problem. You know? You're a piece of coal underneath the layers of rock. And you think your problem's the rock.

You're under stress, and you think the problem is the circumstances. It isn't.

What you need to say is, deliver me from evil. Lord, just let me obey. Help me to obey. And if you obey, you've won. You've been delivered.

Eventually, off will come the pressure. But as long as the pressure's on you, when you're obeying, the stronger you're getting, the more focused you're becoming, the more pure you're becoming. Now, that's the first... I also want to say something under this heading to folks who say, I don't know if I'm a Christian. I'm not sure I'm a Christian. In fact, I'm kind of trying to check out whether I think Christianity is interesting, or is for me. This particular petition destroys, it flies right into the face of the pragmatic spirit of our age. You notice something interesting? This petition comes after, forgive us. First, we're told to pray, forgive us our debts. And then we're told to pray, deliver us from evil. Why? Here's what's so interesting. Once you get forgiveness, that means the consequences of sin, are gone. God won't punish you for it. And yet Jesus says, if you want to understand the way life really is, you'll move on, and you'll pray against sin for what it is in itself. See, people are always saying to me, I'm looking into Christianity to see if it'll work for me. I want to see if it'll work. I want to see that, you know, maybe honesty and purity and prayer, maybe that kind of life will work for me. Jesus is saying,

Christianity isn't true because it works. Christianity works because it's true. I will work for you, but only if you come to me, whether I work for you or not. Only if you come to me because I'm true. Only if you're true to me, whether I work for you or not, will I ever work for you.

It's only in the long run that Christianity is practical, and therefore how wrong it would be for you to come just because Christianity seems to work. Jesus Christ says you must learn to hate sin for what it is in itself.

Not just hate the consequences of the sin, but the sin. A real Christian is somebody who knows they're forgiven and now hates the sin, even though the punishment, the threat of punishment's in the past. That's how you know you're a Christian. In other words, you turn from sin not because it's impractical, though in the end it is, but because you're a Christian. It's an offense to the God who created you, an offense to the Savior who died for you. And if you don't see that, then you actually are using God. You're coming to Christianity, and God is something that you're using to see whether or not you can make your life a happier life. Here's the great irony. If you seek comfort and not righteousness, you'll have neither. If you seek righteousness and not comfort, eventually you'll have both. Your real problem is that you're not going to be able to do that. Your real problem is not your circumstances. Your real problem is not your unhappiness. Your real problem is not the suffering. Your real problem is sin. It's the evil.

You've got to see that, or you'll never, ever, ever really grow through tests. Thirdly, third thing we're told, you have to expect it. Secondly, you have to see that your real problem is sin, not the circumstances. The third thing you've got to see is that you must, process your test through the love of the Father. Now you say, where's that? Well, you have to remember something, and I want to recapitulate too much here, because this has been a series, but when we started the series, we said that Jesus Christ starts the prayer, Our Father. And that means, grammatically and theologically, the word Father in the beginning of the prayer modifies every other petition. You are not just simply to come and say, God, great God, powerful King, do something about my trouble. Jesus Christ is saying, I want you to remember that you are an adopted child of God, that God is your Father, and because He's your Father,

thinking of Him as your Father, I want you to look at your tests and your troubles and your problems. Let me just show you something. Most people I know, when troubles come to them, they react in one of two ways. Actually, there's three ways. I'll give them to you real briefly. One way is people get angry despair. They say, I have worked hard, I don't deserve this. Why is this happening to me? I call that angry despair. Because they say, I don't deserve this, this isn't fair. There is no justice.

The other approach is people get into what I call guilty despair. They say, I must be terrible.

All the things that I was told all my life, I guess it's true. I must be a failure. There must be something wrong with me. I wouldn't be suffering unless it was, it's caught up to me. I've been found out. Guilty despair. Some get angry despair, I don't deserve this. Others get guilty despair, I do deserve this. And then there's others who react by hardening themselves. And they say, life stinks. That's life. I don't care anymore. Now I suggest to you that when suffering happens, and it will, when test comes, and they shall, you can choose from those three, or you can be a Christian. You can choose from those three, or you can know, as Christians know, that you are children of God. A Christian is not somebody who says, I've been trying to earn my salvation. A Christian is somebody who knows that they were adopted by the Father because of what Jesus Christ did for them. Think of what adoption is. When a little child is adopted, that's an action of the Father. It's a legal action. It happens in a second. And the little child doesn't earn the way into the Father's heart. The Father says, I'm not adopting this child because this child resembles me and represents the values and character of my family. I'm adopting this child to make this child,

to give this child values and character. See, adoption is all by grace. And when you adopt, you adopt somebody you're saying, I'm going to treat this child as if this was my natural-born child. And a Christian is somebody who says, legally I have been brought into the family of God by sheer grace, not by my merits, and now the Father loves me as much as he loves his own son. Now, you know what that means? When you process your tests like that, this is what happens. First of all, a Christian looks at the troubles that are in your life and you say, well, I deserve it. Christians, it completely saps the anger of despair. A Christian says, well, I know I'm a sinner. That's the whole, I mean, you're not a Christian if you don't know you're a sinner. If you don't know that your relationship with God is surely by grace, you say, well, I deserve a hard life. I deserve a much harder life than I have. But a Christian also turns over here and says, however, my Father in heaven loves me as much as he loves his natural-born son. What did he say to his natural-born son? This is the truth. This is my beloved son in whom I'm well pleased.

And therefore, God couldn't be punishing me for my sins, the Christian says. If God was punishing for all my sins, I'd be dead by now. I'd be wiped out. See, on the one hand, I deserve this so that gets rid of the anger. On the other hand, I know this couldn't be punishment. That gets rid of the guilt. It also gets rid of the indifference because you say, if you're a father, I know, Lord, that the reason this is in my life, you hate my grief. And I know that like a good father, you weep with me when I weep. You can hardly bear my suffering and therefore there must be a good reason. I look at your natural-born son. You let him go through some very dark paths in order to redeem. Well, I guess that's what you're doing to me and I know you won't let it last one minute more. Just let me obey and let the test have its way in me. Don't you see? A Christian processes. Here's one person. Here's two persons. Here's three. Here's four. The same test. One gets angry. One gets guilty. One gets hard. One responds in joy. Same test. It's not the circumstances. It's how you process it. Will you go to God as your father? Will you behold the lavish love of your father as you're tested? Will you treat him as a father? That will deliver you from evil on the spot. It'll lift you up. It'll encourage you. It'll strengthen you. It'll make you stronger. It'll refine you. One last thing.

If you want to know how to handle tests, it's impossible not to see Jesus saying, Pray, lead us not into temptation. He must have been remembering because by the time he says this, he's already been through temptation. Because the Spirit of God did lead Jesus into temptation. It was read to you this morning. We're told that the Spirit of God came upon Jesus right as God said to the Lord Jesus, This is my beloved Son in whom I'm well pleased. Just as God had confirmed his Sonship, he led him into temptation. That's the way, you know, that's the way fathers do. If you really love your child, you care about them. You train your child. And when he went out there into temptation, not only with the devil, but eventually in the garden, the rest of his life was a temptation. He came through. 1 Peter 4. 1 Peter 4 says, Do not be surprised when the fiery trouble comes upon you. You know what I think he was thinking about? I think he was thinking about Daniel chapter 3. The three Jewish young men in Babylon. Nebuchadnezzar comes to them and says, Even though you're Jewish, I demand that everyone worship this idol. And the young men look and they say, We won't worship the idol. And Nebuchadnezzar says, If you don't, I will throw you into my furnace. An absolute inferno. You will bow down or I'll throw you into my furnace and then who will deliver you? And you know what they said? They said, Our God could deliver us, O king. But if not, we will not bow down to your idol. Look at that. You want to see how to deal with a test?

Who will deliver you from my hand? Says the king, the wicked king. They said, Well, our God could deliver us. But if not, we still won't bow down. That's treating God as God in a test. On the one hand, to say God can't deliver us is not treating him as God. But on the other hand, to demand that God deliver us is not treating him as God either. Do you see that? To not hope for a miracle and ask for a miracle is not treating God as the powerful God he is. But to demand a miracle is not treating God as the sovereign God he is. And you know what they do? They say, We could be delivered from our circumstances. We could be delivered from this suffering. But if not, we're going to obey in the furnace.

I was told this story. I don't know. I'm sure Arthur Armstrong will tell me if this is true later on. That when the British troops and some of the French troops were amassed in Dunkirk in 1940, and they were about, they had to be there. They're backs to the English Channel. And they were about to be wiped out by superior German forces. And the question is, should we stand and fight or should we surrender?

The British High Command sent a telegram to London. It had three words on it. And I guess Britain was still Christian enough at the time that people understood what it meant. Do you know what the three words were? But if not. From Daniel 3. You know what they were saying? Maybe we'll be delivered. But if not, we will not surrender. And in response to that, there was a miracle by the way. Everybody got in their little fishing boat and dinghy and went across the channel and evacuated 338,000 allied troops and saved them.

What they said, we will obey whether we're delivered from the furnace or not. So Nebuchadnezzar throws them into the furnace. And then he goes to look. And he's amazed. Because as the king looks into the furnace, he not only sees people walking around, but instead of seeing the three in which, the three that he threw in there, he sees a fourth. If you know that Jesus Christ also stood in front of a furnace and said, Lord God, let this cup pass from me. Let the wrath that belongs to sinners, that's supposed to fall on me. Let it pass from me. But if not, I'll go into the furnace for them. If you see him saying, but if not for you, you will be able to say, but if not for him. If you see him going into the furnace for you, the great furnace for you, he will walk in your little furnace with you.

Really. Do you want to deal with the test of life? Expect them. See that sin is the only real problem. Process it with the Father's love. And watch Jesus Christ dealing with temptation for you. And I tell you, bring on the test. All it will do is make you something beautiful. Let's pray. Thank you, Father, for giving us this wonderful, wonderful prayer that shows us the way to do almost everything we need. It gives us all the furnishings. It gives us all the medicines. It gives us all the tools. It gives us all that pertains to life and godliness. Help us to pick these things up and use them. We pray the prayer all the time. We pray the prayer here every week. Teach us how to pick up the great resources within it and use them.