I'd like you to turn with me to John chapter 8, and we're moving through the Gospel of John, and today we come to verses 30 through 41. And the theme throughout the worship service has had to do with God's kingship, has had to do with His ability to free you from prison, to free the captives. In other words, the wonderful word you've been hearing throughout the worship service is that his service is perfect freedom. We're going to look now at this teaching in a sense right in the face. Jesus is confronting the religious leaders of his day, and he talks about what true freedom is. I'm going to read from verses 30 to 41. Even as he spoke, many put their faith in him. To the Jews who had believed him, Jesus said, If you hold to my teaching, you are really my disciples. Then you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free. They answered him, We are Abraham's descendants and have never been slaves of anyone. How can you say that we shall be set free? Jesus replied, I tell you the truth. Everyone who sins is a slave to sin. Now, a slave has no permanent place in the family, but a son belongs to it forever. So if the Son sets you free, you will be free indeed. I know you are Abraham's descendants, yet you are ready to kill me because you have no room in my word for my word. I am telling you what I have seen in the Father's presence, and you do what you have heard from your father. Abraham is our father, they answered. If you were Abraham's children, said Jesus, you would do the things Abraham did. As it is, you are determined to kill me, a man who has just told you the truth that I heard from God. Abraham did not do such things. You are doing the things your own father does. We are not illegitimate children, they protested. The only father we have is God himself. In about two weeks, we celebrate United States Independence Day, which is the day in which we achieve self-rule On the other hand, the message of the Bible is that a person becomes a Christian when he or she relinquishes self-rule. There's a, you know, in the Bible, for example, there's a theme that Christians are douloi, indentured servants, servants of their master. In this particular passage, we see Jesus saying that the only way you're going to find my freedom is if you submit, continue in my word, receive my word, obey me. So you have this very stark contrast. On the one hand, the birthday of America is Independence Day, but the birthday of a Christian is your Dependence Day. The birthday of America was the day they achieved self-rule. We achieved it. The birthday of a Christian is the day you relinquish self-rule. Now, the contrast is more apparent than real. Because, you see, Jesus is not talking here about political freedom. Now, political freedom is absolutely critical, and the church has always recognized that. It's worth dying for. And it's interesting to notice that the revolutions in Eastern Germany that happened at the end of the 80s, that at the center of those revolutions against oppressive regimes were the churches, the Catholic and the Protestant church, especially in Poland and especially in East Germany and especially in Romania. And the reason for that is this, that over the 50 years, almost 50 years of oppression, The church was one of the few places where the passion for freedom couldn't die out. And here's why. Because Christianity believes in truth. And this passage tells us that without truth, there's no freedom. It's the truth that sets you free. You see, the Christian understanding of truth is that it comes from God, it comes from the Bible, and it can't be, therefore, legislated. It can't be controlled by a dictator. It can't be controlled by a media. It can't be redefined truth. And therefore, Christians never get their truth from the climate of the culture of the society. Now, what's interesting about that is that it means Christians do not get their truth from a permissive society, nor do they get it from an oppressive society. In a permissive society like New York City, Christians always look conservative. But in an oppressive society like Eastern Europe, the Christians always look like the liberals, the radicals. And that's because actually Christians really have the ability to be the radicals in every culture because they're able to judge the culture with a standard of truth that doesn't come from the culture. Without truth, there is no freedom. And that's the reason why over 50 years in Romania and in Poland and in East Germany, the church was a place where the ideas of freedom and of democracy against oppression were always, they were never able to be put out. It was always a hotbed of subversion. And it still is. Now listen, as important as political freedom is, Jesus is talking here about a freedom that is even more fundamental than political freedom, without which your political freedom is of no comfort. I think all of us know from history, and this is so interesting to me, from the newspapers every month, that some of our greatest political leaders Men and women who lead us into political freedom, reformers, are still slaves to their own nature. Cannot control their own passions, cannot control their own selves. They're out of control. They're slaves. There's a tremendous number of people in history who were great political leaders, and yet at the same time, and like I said, not just in history, even today, in the newspaper, but at the same time they were in the grip of lusts for money, for acclaim, for extravagance, for pomp, for power, for self-indulgence. They were controlled by their own ambitions, their own lusts, their own ego, their own pride. It's a different kind of freedom that Jesus is talking about. If you really want to know what freedom is, everybody knows what freedom is, what it feels like. Freedom feels like complete personal greatness, to be completely under control, to be full of joy, fulfillment, doing the things that we most desire to do. Christianity agrees with the culture as to what freedom feels like. It feels like fulfillment. It feels like joy, doing the things you know you've always wanted most deeply to do. But Christianity absolutely differs from the culture when it comes to saying how do we get that freedom, that personal freedom, that moral freedom, that spiritual freedom, underneath, without which the political freedom means nothing. How do we get it? A Christian says this. A Christian says, the day I relinquished my autonomy, the day I relinquished my self-rule was the day I found my freedom. Now, friends, please listen. That's the Christian understanding laid out, but I'd like to unpack that and see what Jesus really says here. And anyone who has ever really understood what Christian liberation really is never believes that it's dull or boring or foolish or even repressive. If you do understand this before you reject it, you will reject it because it's too incredibly good to be true. That's a perfectly valid reason to reject this teaching. Or to reject it because it's too scary. Because the doctrine of Christian liberation is asking you to come on a quest, an adventure. It says, give up your autonomy and you will know a freedom that you can't even imagine. You may reject it because it's too incredibly good to be true, or it's because it's too scary, and your heart faints before the idea of the great quest. But you will not reject it because you think it's repressive. It's silly to think that Christianity is repressive. Christianity creates the radical. Christianity creates the person who is free from what everyone else says, or what any society says, or what any culture says, and especially from what your ego and your conscience say as well. We have here, locked in this wonderful passage, the who, the why, and the how of Christian freedom, of Christian liberation. Who it comes from, why it comes from him, and how it can come to us. Number one, the who. What's the who of Christian freedom? Who it comes from? And of course you know it's in verse 36. If the Son of God will make you free, you will be free indeed. Let me right here say Jesus is coming against a typical myth. One of the world's myths, I'm going to give you a couple of them. One of the world's myths about freedom is this. Some people say freedom is having no master but yourself. And Christ says, uh-uh, freedom is having the right master. So the myth is freedom means having no master. The truth is, freedom is having the right master. Now, we're here, we're getting to a subject that a lot of you know that if I can ever even cut over to it, I try to get there in a sermon, but here we can meet it head on. What Jesus is saying is, anyone who sins is a slave to sin. Self-rule, self-mastery, he says, is the suicide of the will. Whatever you live for, you give yourself to, and that becomes the thing that controls you. No one really controls him or herself. What do you live for? Everybody decides I'm going to live for something. Everybody decides I'm going to live for some purpose. Everybody decides I'm going to have some standards. Then I can look myself in the face. Then I know I'm significant. Then I know I'm okay. As Rocky, as you know, the great example is Rocky said, if I can go 15 rounds with Apollo Creed, then I'll know I'm not a bum. And the question is, is what do you have to do to know you're not a bum? Everybody's got an answer to that question. Implicit or explicit, conscious or barely conscious. What do you have to do so you know you're not a bum? It has to do with career, maybe. It has to do with love. It has to do with family. It has to do with money. It has to do with something. You can't live without a purpose. But whatever that purpose is becomes your Lord. That is what controls you. Whatever you live for becomes your Lord. No one, in a sense, lives for him or herself. You live for your Lord. You know, remember in the movie and in the play Oliver? Here's Nancy the prostitute. She lives with Bill Sykes. Why? Because, what is she saying? Because I know he needs me. That's what gives her meaning in life. He abuses her, though. And she stays with him because he needs me. Until eventually he kills her. Well, you say, how terrible. Silly. How codependent, okay? Well, look, listen. Don't you live for your career? Why are you letting your career abuse you? Because it's your master. Because you don't control yourself. What Jesus Christ says is, if you live for anything, and you have to live for something, or you have nothing to live for, if you live for anything but me, that becomes your Lord, and that will be your master, and you will take you into the ground. Unless I'm your Lord, you're not free. No one really is in charge of his or her own life. Nobody. You know, as somebody says, that's ridiculous. I'm in charge of my own life. I don't live for career. I don't live for people. I live for myself. I remember seeing on a talk show once, I love talk shows on TV, and they were discussing addressing older men and, no, older women and younger men. Older women who love younger men. And at one point, they asked one of the older women, aren't you afraid he'll leave you? And she said, he should be afraid I'll leave him. She said, he shouldn't build his life around me, and I shouldn't build my life around him. You shouldn't make anyone else your happiness. You must be your own happiness. And he said what she did was, independence is her Lord. She can't commit. She's got to always keep her options open. She can't become vulnerable. She's run by independence. I'm sorry, my dear friends. As Bob Dylan says, you've got to serve somebody. And even those of you who say, I don't serve anybody but myself, then independence is your Lord. It's driving you. It's the reason that you can't commit to anybody. It's the reason you're lonely. And telling yourself, I'm strong enough not to care. Or put it another way, your ego, if you don't serve me, then in a sense your ego is your master. I remember some years ago, quite a while ago now, but I'll never forget, I talked to a woman who was a fairly recent convert to Christianity. And she had recently been rejected by a group, a peer group, a social group that was very, it was very important to her and she was really wrestling with it. What she did gives you the essence of how the Son makes you free. She said, you know, I really had to wrestle, then I had to decide, what is my real master here? And she said to herself, she sat down and she talked to herself one day, and she said, okay, Ms. Ego, just yesterday in church, you were down there confessing that you're a worthless, miserable sinner. And now somebody is whispering in your ear that you're not significant. But what if they knew about the things that I did do wrong? I'm open to lots of criticism. I've done many things wrong, but Jesus Christ has paid for it all. And he's thrown them behind him. He loves me and he's bringing me out of them. And therefore, she said to herself, why is these people's opinion so important when I have got the favor of the king of the cosmos, who when these people are long gone, he will receive me to his right hand? My ego is not my master she said they're not my master he's my master you people can't jerk me around and she even said to her ego you can't jerk me around either I'm not yours anymore I'm his I'm free I'll never forget that conversation that's it Jesus Christ says whatever you live for is your Lord the one who sins is a slave of sin if you live for anybody but me You're tyrannized. If you live for me, it says, I will be the one Lord, the one master, who will really love you. See, a Christian is someone who says, I gave up my autonomy and now I've got my freedom. I revolted from under the tyranny of the ego because no matter what I did, no matter what I did, my ego always cursed me. I could never live up. I could never be good enough. And because it always cursed me, I finally revolted. I threw off its yoke. And now I live for him. And I finally found freedom. Myth number one, freedom is being your own master. The truth is, freedom is having the right master, Jesus. That's the who. Freedom is a matter of who. Okay? Or as Elizabeth Elliot, remember she spoke here last year, she likes to say, identity is not an issue of who am I, but whose am I? You belong to somebody. You got to serve somebody. Secondly, Jesus Christ is the who. Secondly, why does giving yourself to Jesus Christ bring freedom? Why does Christ bring freedom? And the answer is here, down here in this particular verse, down here in verse 30, pardon me, 35 or 36. I did this last week too. Yeah. Now, a slave has no permanent place in the family, but a son belongs to it forever. This is a profound thought, and this is very critical. What Jesus Christ is saying is, some people are anxious because they live in the house like a slave. A slave never knows when he's going to be cast out. A slave doesn't really feel like that you're into the power, but a son, He says, knows that he belongs. Freedom comes through Christ because in Christ you know you belong. In Christ you know you're one of God's children. And this alone can help you deal with your past and help you deal with your present. Let me show you. Knowing that you're his children is the way to freedom. Not a slave who's always wondering, where do I stand? Where do I stand? A son says, I belong. I'm one of the father's children. Let me show you what I mean by the past. There's a place in Numbers where it says, be sure, and this is a great verse, please memorize this, ready? Be sure your sins will find you out. Now that's a fascinating verse It doesn't say Be sure the world will find you out It doesn't say that It may, it may not It doesn't say Others, be sure your others will find you out It doesn't say that It says your sins will find you out Your sins have a life of their own You're lying there in bed And suddenly the panorama The foolishness The deception The meanness The dishonesty All the things that you try to justify the Bible says, have a life of their own. They'll come, they'll get you, they'll taunt you, they'll tease you, they'll probe you, they'll laugh at you. What are you going to do about it? You see, everybody has got this thing called a conscience, and when you decide what you're going to live for, the conscience then becomes your enemy. It gives your sins life. There's not just an indelibility about our guilt, there's an immediacy, there's a vitality about it. The tapes are continually being played. The voices, the laughter. Your sins will come. They'll find you out. They'll come after you. What are you going to do about it? How do you get... Listen, moral freedom. I don't know a single thoughtful person, apart, out of the side of the gospel, that has moral freedom. Moral freedom, the absolute freedom from conscience, is ridiculous. You know, what's interesting to me, for example, is I read an interview with a mafia hitman a couple weeks ago. Did any of you see that? And here's a man who did anything he was told. Here's a man who killed two of his best friends. One of them, the night before he was going to kill them they were having a drink together and the friend says to him, do you think something's coming down? I feel like something's coming down. And he sat there and swore he says, I'll protect you. I love you. I won't let anything happen to you. Knowing the next day he was going to kill him. He said, there's a man without a conscience and yet what's interesting in the interview he says, One thing we never do, we never kill somebody for money. That would be greed, he said. Listen, friends, everybody has to believe that they're persons of integrity. And everybody knows they're not. Your sins will find you out. What are you going to do about it? Where are you going to get freedom from that? How do you get freedom from your past? And the answer is by knowing the gospel. Gospel. John 1.12 says, to those who received him, to those who believed on his name, he gave power to become the sons of God. You see, the Gospel says you're no longer someone who just works in the house for God. You've been adopted. He accepts you completely. The Gospel says Jesus Christ, the Son of God, died to fulfill the law, all my requirements before the law. He died to destroy death. He died to put away the debt of sin. And now all of my condemnation that the conscience tells me about has fallen on Christ. So what do I do with those voices? You turn on them. You say, I know that he paid it. I know that Jesus Christ has paid it. I know God could not take two debts. And therefore you turn on those voices and you say, listen, all the voices of hell can jeer and snarl at me. All the voices of my own heart, of hell can laugh and mock at me, but I know this. I know your power to enslave, but I've got a better power still. The power that led captivity captive, that swallowed up death, has all been unleashed for me. Jesus has done all this for me. My conscience is clear. That's how you get moral freedom. And I don't know any other way. You show me another way. I had a I haven't done it in weeks now. It'll eat you alive. It'll eat you up. You're duck soup for it. If you want moral freedom, if you want the freedom from your past, you've got to know you're a child of his. You've got to know you're adopted. You've got to know you're secure in the Father's love. That's it. There's no other way. But not only does it help you have freedom from your past, it's in Christ that you have freedom from your present. In the present right now. Another myth. One myth says freedom is doing what you really want to do. That's ridiculous. Jesus says freedom is doing what you're meant to do, what you're built to do. Look, let me give you what Jesus is saying is that you say freedom is doing what you really want to do, but there's more than one of you down in there. Your desires are all crazy. Originally, I built you to live for me. But because you rebelled, now there's all sorts of pathological desires in there too. Many of our desires now are like cancer. Cancer is the normal dynamic of cell division gone crazy. And as a result, you are just a kind of cauldron of seething, conflicting desires. How are you going to know what your deepest desires are? Let me to give you an example. I'm going to give you a trite example and then a more important one. I want to have a healthy heart. I want to live. I don't want to die of heart failure, but I like butter. I like lots of butter on top of everything. I would like to have stamina. Therefore, I'd like to keep my weight down, but I like ice cream, lots of ice cream. You see, now, freedom is doing what you really want to do. Well, what do I really want to do? You see, some of my desires Some of my desires go right against my body's design. And so in my case there, freedom is not doing what I really want to do because I really want to do a lot of different things and they all conflict with each other. Freedom is to side with the desires that are in line with my bodily design. Let me go one step further. Let's go deeper. Adultery. I've talked to plenty of people who've been in it, are on the verge of it. And usually it means that they are being absolutely pulled by two different desires. On the one hand is the desire to be a person of integrity. You want to keep promises. You don't want to deceive people. You certainly don't want to, you know, you sit there, you don't want people to deceive you and break their promises to you. So you feel bad about breaking promises to them. On the other hand, there's this person that makes you feel wonderful, makes you feel exhilarated, makes you feel good about yourself. Two very deep needs, two very deep desires. All right, let's use the modern version, the modern definition of freedom. Freedom is doing what you most deeply want to do. Go ahead, do it, but you don't know what it is. My friends, your desires are down there in your soul, having head-on collisions, playing chicken with each other, trying to, each one trying to get the other one to flinch first. You don't know what at bottom is your deepest desire. And if it's true that you have many desires that actually go against your body, and therefore freedom would be to side with the desires that are in line with the design of your body, then freedom spiritually would have to be to side with the desires that are in line with the design of your soul. But which are they? Well, you see, if you want to know whether you should eat butter or not, you can go to a doctor. A doctor studied the body, knows body operates, pretty much. Where do you go for your soul? The answer, Jesus says, you go to the truth. The truth, the Word of God, the Scripture written by the Creator, the One who created you. You have to submit to the blueprints. I had a couple of friends who had this big old house, and they were so excited they were going to really make some alterations. They were going to put doors there, they were going to take a wall out there, and they were going to extend the house there. The problem was they didn't have the plans. They didn't have the original blueprints. And they made some costly errors. They tried to put a door in a place where they had to cut through a beam and they couldn't cut through that. They had no idea the beam was there. Actually, there was no beam over there and they should have put the door over there. Actually, they tried to put a wall down there when they should have taken this wall down. It was very expensive. It was very difficult. But they couldn't find the blueprints because they didn't even know who the old original architect was. Maybe if they knew who the architect was they could find it in his old archives, but he was long dead by now. Do you think the blueprints of your life, of your soul, are missing? Not only that, the architect's not dead. My dear friends, it may look like it's practical to tell a lie. What does the blueprint say? You might think it's practical to tell a lie. You might think that looks like a great place to put a door through. But the blueprint says, no, don't tell a lie. Take a hit. Take the consequences of telling the truth because underneath your soul can't take dishonesty. You will eat it away like acid. I know, says God, the author of the word, because I built you for this. And the only way you'll ever be free is if you submit to the blueprints. You know, there's a faith is pride in the idea God had when he made you. Faith is pride in the idea God had when he made you. The greatness of the blueprint. When you read and see the wisdom the nobility, the courage, the integrity the compassion, the love the courage and fearlessness when you see the blueprint greatness comes into your soul as you honor that as you obey that design. That's what obedience is. You know how you get freedom? By becoming a son or a daughter. A father comes to the child and the child says, I don't want to go to school anymore. I've had it. And the father says, you're going to be there because if I give you your autonomy, it will destroy your freedom. I know what you want, but you can't listen to your friends. You can't listen to your peer group. You have to listen to me because I know in the long run, of your desires. It will lead to freedom. And in the short run, if you obey your desires instead of me, it'll lead to your slavery. Trust me. I am your father. And that's how the child finds freedom. And that's how you will find freedom. Myth number two. Freedom is what? Doing what you most deeply desire. The answer, Jesus says, freedom is doing what you were built to do. siding with the desires that go along with your design and that design is found in the word of God now lastly, just a brief couple of practical things we said who gives you freedom? It's Christ alone why do you get freedom? Because he makes you through the gospel, through what he has done on the cross he makes you a son or a daughter of the king how then do you get freedom? It's really locked away walked away in this wonderful verse. It says, if you hold to my teaching, you are really my disciples, then you will know the truth and the truth will set you free. Three things. Three things we taught in this verse. Number one, hold to the truth means that obedience is a matter of discipline. It's sticking with it. Hold to the truth. Gee, there's so many things I could say. it kind of goes like this um you know there's a lot of people who say freedom is the power of right now that i live in new york i wish i knew some other languages i see people who are fluent in five languages and i'm envious of them why because they have more freedom than i do they can do things they can go places that i can't they have the power of choice but because they have the power of choice because in the past they did some real work didn't they discipline to some books or some classrooms when they could have been out doing other things. Here's a person who can choose to play a beautiful piano sonata. I can't. Why? Because that person chained him or herself for hours to a piano. Freedom comes through discipline. Look at the sailor in the boat. He's winning the race. Why? First of all, he's obeying the laws of wind and surf. Secondly, he's obeying the design of the one who built the boat. And then thirdly, he's practiced and practiced and practiced. It takes years to see the wisdom of the truth, and very often it takes wisdom to feel the freedom. It takes years to feel the freedom. It says, if you hold to my teaching, that means hold on to it, eventually you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free. Not always right away. There's an awful story about a man in jail. He was in jail for many years. His life was ruined because he was a hit-and-run driver. He ran over a kid and injured the child very badly and left He left the scene. And he told a reporter once that back when he was a child, he had taken one of his father's prize watch out of his drawer to play with it and had dropped it and broken it. He put it back in the drawer. When his father came and asked all the children, who destroyed my watch? He said, I didn't say. I told a lie. He says, from that time onward, it was always easier for me. I learned to take the easy way out, to hide. and when the moment of truth came, I hid again. See, what had been happening is, over the years, he'd been breaking the law of God, and in a sense, like acid, he'd been eaten away at a beam under the house. Or like acid had been eating away at the bone, and finally it broke through. The wisdom of the Word of God eventually shows through. It takes discipline to find the freedom, and in many cases it takes discipline to find the enslavement. So the first thing we learn here is, freedom comes through discipline. Secondly, now look, secondly, it says, if you hold to my teaching, then you become really my disciples. And then you will know the truth and the truth will set you free. Always see this. God never jumps and says, obey, and then everything will be fine. It says, obey in order to become a certain kind of person. You see, ethical behavior doesn't make you a Christian any more than barking makes you a dog. If you want to be a dog, you need the DNA. You need the nature implanted. And in the same way, what we're talking about here is God is saying, it's not obedience that makes you a Christian. Obedience is a way of seeing that you're really my disciple. That means the new birth. That means receiving him. That means that you must keep in mind that the whole purpose, the whole purpose of the Christian walk is to become a certain kind of person. And the freedom only comes from being that kind of person and developing that kind of character. And then lastly, finally, the truth will set you free. Finally, the truth will set you free. This is all I've got time for. John chapter 14, verse 23, where Jesus says, If you obey my words, my Father and I will come to you, and we will manifest ourselves to you. Christian friends, if God isn't real to you, somehow, in some way, you need to go back and say, where am I failing to hold to his word? If I hold to his word, obedience is what brings reality. Psalm chapter, Psalm 1, it says, the mark of the godly man is not that he prays day and night, is not that he witnesses in the street corner day and night, it's not that he, what was it, What does it say he does day and night in Psalm 1? It says he meditates on the law of God and he delights on it. He delights in the law of God and he meditates day and night. The mark of a godly man is that he is someone who loves to have God tell him what to do. He loves to have God's word examine his life. Do you like that? If you don't, that will tell you something about the state of your soul. because you see, freedom, perfect freedom comes from his service. Jesus Christ says, my yoke is easy and my burden is light. And if you're being crushed today, it's because you've got some other yoke, you have some other burden on. The only yoke that will not crush you is to put on absolute, unconditional obedience, making him supreme in your life, no other Lord, no other, free. If you hold to my teaching, then you are really my disciples and you will know the truth and the truth will set you free. For if the Son makes you free, you'll be free indeed. We're going to pray. As soon as I'm done praying, we're going to take the offering. Let me tell you what we're doing now. When the offering comes around, especially if you're guests, you don't have to feel like you're here to give. Don't feel like you're under any pressure to give. the purpose of the offering is for you to now think. You're going to have three or four minutes, and then we're going to close with our final hymn. The next three or four minutes, as you listen to the offering music, offer yourself to him. Ask yourself, am I being disciplined in my obedience? Am I being wholehearted in my obedience? Am I really his disciple? Have I really received him? Have I really become a child of his, or am I just a servant in the house? Ask yourself these things. Examine yourself. Not to feel bad, to feel free. Let's pray. Our Father, some of us are leading lives that are religious, but they're full of fear. We're just afraid of being punished. We're afraid of betraying what our parents taught us. Some of us are leading lives in which we are being driven by ambition, being driven by fear of failure. Our Father, we ask for the freedom. intuitively that the words that we looked at this morning will have to be applied to everybody differently. That we've got a couple hundred people in this room and there's a couple hundred different stories and your spirit has to deal with every one of us in a unique way. Would you do that now? And would you lead every person in this room now to see how they can know your freedom. How they can know the liberation of the Son. We pray, Father, that you will show each of us now what it means when we say, your service is perfect freedom. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.

