The Lord's Supper is a family meal. What does it mean to be in the family of God? These verses we've been looking at, we interrupted ourselves somewhat last week for Easter, but we go back to them. 1 John chapter 3, verses 1 to 6. Let me read them. How great is the love the Father has lavished on us, that we should be called children of God. And that is what we are. The reason the world does not know us is that it did not know him. Dear friends, now we are children of God, and what we will be has not yet been made known. But we know that when he appears, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. Everyone who has this hope in him purifies himself, just as he is pure. Let's just end right there. Okay. This is God's... We're looking at the word, and we're looking at these three verses. And we have been looking at these three verses, and we went through the first and second verse. The first verse talks about the fact that we can know the love of God now. It talks to us about the love of God, which has been, it says, lavished on us. And when we looked at that, we said that, you know, this is, John, the Greek word that's translated lavished can also mean presented to us. It's bestowed upon us. We're adopted into the family of God. We're called children of God. When we become Christians, we pass from death to life. And we pass from being outside of his family to being in his family. And we actually talked about this at some length this morning, looking at the Lord's Prayer, which starts, Our Father. And the very essence of what it means to be a Christian is found in this phrase, children of God. You're adopted when you become a Christian. When you receive Christ, you're adopted. And when you look at adoption, you've got the whole of what Christianity is all about right there. Because when you're adopted, adoption is not an act of the child, but an act of the parent. The child may not even seek it. The parent does it. It's not a matter of striving and efforts. The parent makes a legal transaction. And we said, secondly, adoption is not, at first, a change in nature or a change in behavior. It's a change in status, primarily. Later on, because the child's in your family, if you love the child and you work with the child, the child's behavior may change, we hope. It certainly will change. But in the beginning, what makes a child adopted one minute and was not adopted a minute before that, there was a change in status, legal status. That's what the change was. Before, you did not have responsibility for that child. Now you have utter responsibility if you're the parent that's adopted. Before, if that child acted up, you sent them away. Now you have that child in your home unconditionally. And when you become children of God, in comes this new status. And we've talked about this a lot. We receive this tremendous love. And in verse 2, it talks about the glory of God. That's not something we have. It's something we will have. We have the love of God now. We have adoption now. That's verse 1, see? How great is the love, how miraculous is the love the Father has lavished on us that we should be called children of God. And then in verse 2, that's what we have. Verse 2 is what we will have. Dear friends, now we're children of God, and what we will be has not yet been made known. But we know that when he appears, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. We're destined for glory. Now, one week we talked about the love of experience and the love of God. Another week we talked about the vision of God. The thing we're going to get at the end of time, the beatific vision. Seeing him as he is. And how that's going to transform us into our omega selves. That's a new phrase. I just made it up. You know that. It started here. So if it sweeps the world, you'll know where it began. But, you know, in other words, what you were designed to be. The great thing that you were designed to be that sin keeps you from being now. When we see him, all the things that keep us from being that person, that glorious and radiant being that God wants you to be, his sons, his daughters, princes, princesses, and so forth, in his family, that'll happen. Now, it's very necessary. It's very necessary after verse 1 and 2. And people were very exhilarated. I was very exhilarated thinking about this for the last month. I could tell talking to people afterwards that they were tremendous subjects. Are they not? They really thrill. They excite. It's what makes Christianity different than other religions and what makes it so special. But that's why you need verse 3. Verse 3 is a down-to-earth verse. Anyone who thus has this hope, or as the old King James Version says, and everyone who thus hopes, and everyone who thus hopes in him purifies himself as he is pure. Now, this reminds me a little bit of Luke chapter 9. In Luke chapter 9, we're told about the transfiguration. The disciples go up onto the mountain and they see God. It's a mountaintop experience. They see Jesus transfigured, glorious. They have a mountaintop experience. And then immediately they come back off the mount onto the plain where there's nothing but confusion and trouble. Disciples are trying to throw a demon out of a little boy. They can't do it. It just seems like a lot of the things that Jesus told them to do don't work and so on. It's fascinating to see that as soon as you have this mountaintop experience of the glory of God, almost immediately the lights go out and all the pain and suffering of the world come flooding back in. It's a way of telling us, I think. I think Luke put it that way to tell us that God will give us those experiences of his glory, but you've got to live on the plain. You don't live on the mountain yet. In the same way, what John is saying, John is saying, how great, in verse 1, that we have the love of God. And how great, verse 2, that we're destined to glory. But in verse 3 he says, are you using these things? It's great that you have the love of God. Are you using it? It's great that you're going to be destined for glory. Are you using it? Are you using these truths? Are you using this knowledge? Are you putting it to work on the plain where you live? In the day in and day out work, what difference does it make? What difference is it making in your life that you have had this love lavished on you? What difference does it make that you're destined for glory, for the vision of God, that's the ultimate end of your life? That's the goal, the climax to which everything in your life is moving. If that's true, how are you living today? And John says that if you understand these things and grasp these things, if you reflect on these things and use these things properly, they will clean you. Everyone, everyone who has this hope, what hope? Verse 1 and 2. Everyone who believes the things I'm talking about in verse 1 and 2, if you believe them properly, if you use them properly, you can use them to purify yourself. And the word purify, there's nothing special about this word. It's exactly what you might think. It's the Greek word hognia, which means to be morally unstained. You've got character flaws. You've got besetting sins. You've got bad habits. You've got weaknesses, things that you would love to see changed. John says, here's how you do it. One of the things that I, you, this might surprise you. It won't surprise all of you. I fairly regularly get letters from people being very critical. Over the years, I'm not talking about just now. Over the years, ministers get letters from people who say, I hate your preaching. Not necessarily, sometimes they're pretty nasty, but most of the time, they're not well-meant, but very often pretty critical. Sometimes they make you say, hey, I've got to be more careful about what I say. Other times, they make you say, this is exactly what I wanted to say. But the point is, many of the letters come because there's a great controversy out in the Christian church as to how active and how passive Christians should be in their process of becoming like Christ, in their imitation of Christ, in their development of holiness, in their growth and purity. On the one hand, you have what's called quietism. Quietism is a view that says you shouldn't make any striving at all. You just somehow mystically open yourself and let God change you. You don't strive. Don't strive. You just let it happen. I went through a phase of this in the earliest days of my Christian life. I went through a phase in which I got into what we would now call quietistic literature that said, don't try to have quiet times. Don't try to overcome anger. Don't try to overcome impurity. Don't try to struggle against temptation. Just let God overcome it through you. I spent a few weeks trying to do that and found it was a difficult thing to do. I wasn't really sure what in the world they were getting at, and I still don't. I've been a Christian for 20 years. Sometimes you'll get letters. I'll get letters saying, you give people the impression that they have something to do. They should just wait and let God do it to them. That's quietism. On the other hand, you have what's called moralism. Very often I get letters critical of all the emphasis, on beholding the love of God and the acceptance and the inevitability of us going to glory. There's some people who say, you need to tell people that if they don't get on the stick and if they don't do the right thing, they could be condemned. They don't like to hear people talk about there's no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. There's a moralism which puts all, you might say, the emphasis on your work. What's lovely about this verse is you see the balance. Maybe I shouldn't even say balance. It's not half and half. It's kind of off. It's off the scale, off the spectrum from moralism to quietism. Look, it says, on the one hand, you purify yourself. None of this hocus pocus saying, oh no, you don't do anything. You don't cleanse yourself. You don't work at holiness. You just sort of let God do it. It says, you purify yourself. There it is, right there. But, notice how it's done. It's done through hope. It's done through putting hope in certain truths. It flows. It flows out of the truth. It's not simply a matter of moral effort. But it flows from putting, setting your heart on certain truths. Let me show you what it's saying. Let me show you the general and then the specific instructions it gives us about how you can grow in purity. First of all, let me just give you the general principle. Purity grows out of the application of truth. You know, if you listen carefully, and I know many of you do, you'll realize this point keeps coming up when we're going through Ephesians, going through 1 Peter, in the evening services, we go through books of the Bible, this continually comes up. You see this fact. The Bible's doctrine is always applied to practical life and whenever the Bible exhorts you to do something in your practical life, it's always based on doctrine. The Bible's doctrine is all application and its application is all doctrine. It never tells you, just say no. It tells you, why to say no. It never says, be forgiving or do this or do that without putting it in the context of a coherent and complete worldview, view of reality. Now this makes us utterly different, I would say, than contemporary people. Contemporary society right now is very irrational about its practical lifestyle. Christianity never tells you something practical to do without giving you the vast, high, deep, theological truth behind it. It never, Christianity never says, you must forgive people because it'll be bad for you. Or you must forgive people just because it's the right thing to do. You must forgive because there is a judge and it's not your job to be the judge. You're underqualified for the job of judge of the world. It goes, in other words, Christianity will talk to you about judgment and about the righteousness of God. And then Christianity will talk about the cross and salvation and how Christ forgave you at great cost. And then it'll say, therefore, you have to forgive. It'll talk about your bad attitude toward your roommate, your bad attitude toward your in-laws or something like that. But it won't just talk about it. It'll say, because God is the judge, because Jesus died. It'll talk about the hypostatic union. It'll talk about the, you see, it'll talk about, it'll talk about the union of the divine and human natures. It'll talk about the providence of God and the sovereignty of God and all these vast and high truths. And then it'll immediately descend down and say, therefore, this is how you should live. See, Christianity never tells you what to do without telling you why and putting it in the whole context. That's not the way contemporary people work anymore. I'll give you a quick example. I mean, you hear me do this up here all the time and some of you are in this boat, I'm sure. People today, are irrational when it comes to their ethics as opposed to, the biblical ethics are tremendously rational. They always say, here's why you should do this and here's why you should do that. It grounds it in the nature of God, the nature of humanity, the nature of eternity and so on. I ask people, for example, do you believe in God? No. Okay. Do you believe that human beings are valuable? Well, they'll say, I believe in evolution. I believe that human beings are more complex beings than, than rocks and trees and so on. So I believe they're more complex. But ultimately, I don't know that there is a God. I don't know that there are absolute values. I don't know that, I think when you die, you rot. Okay. Then I say, do you believe racism is wrong? They say, yes. I'll say, well, that's interesting. When you look at evolution, you see the strong devouring the weak. Therefore, when you say racism is wrong, you're really asking us to go completely against the natural order of things. On what basis do you do that? Don't you see, that if evolution is true, there is nothing wrong with racism. Not only that, if evolution is all there is, even your sense of right and wrong is just a psychopharmacological reaction in your brain. There is no right and wrong. So how in the world can you say racism and right and wrong? And they'll say, I just know it. See, what is that? That's irrational. Modern people build their ethics, their castles in the air. There's no basis for them. They've got no basis in their understanding of humanity, in their understanding of time and space, the understanding of God. No basis at all. Christianity is utterly rational. I didn't say it's rationalistic. Rationalism means that human reason is the final supreme court of truth. Oh no, it's not true. It's God's revealed truth is the final. God's word is in judgment over our reason. That's why Christianity is not rationalistic, but it's highly rational. Look at Paul. He says, if Christ is not raised from the dead, eat, drink, and be happy. Be merry for tomorrow we die. What's that mean? He says, if death is the end, there is no basis for restraint. There is no basis for compassion. There is no basis for self-denial. There's no basis for ethics at all. He's rational. He's right too. Christianity is utterly rational. It never says to do something without telling you why. But you're going to find that the people around you who aren't Christians, and many of you who yourselves may not be Christians here tonight, I'm very glad you're here, I'm putting, you know, turning some screws on you. That's part of my job. Of course it's part of my job. I'm here to say, Christianity, though not rationalistic, is far more rational than you are. That's one of its appeals. Now look carefully. That means on the one hand, the Bible never tells you what to do without showing you the theological reason. It never gives you application with that doctrine, but it also means it never gives you doctrine without application. That means it's never right to read something in the Bible and just know it, put it in your notebook and say, now I know it. It's almost, almost, not quite, it's almost more dangerous to know the truth and not do anything about it than not to have it at all. It's almost more dangerous because when the Bible says God is a judge, and if you don't let that humble you, when it says Jesus died for you, and if you don't let that humble you, if, in other words, all these things that the Bible says, if you don't say, what difference did that make to me? How should that affect the way I live? How should it lead me to be more pure? If you don't let it purify you, you're in danger of becoming a Pharisee. If you take in the truth and you don't come under the power of the truth, if you don't, let me just give you a quick example. I know people that know a lot about the Bible and yet they're afraid of the Bible. They're full of self-consciousness and self-hatred and they're very self-deprecating. They're very down on themselves. They're shy. They know a lot about the Bible. What does that mean? They have not let the truth purify them. They don't know that they're children of God. Look at it. How great is the love of the Father? Well, you haven't let that come through. You have doctrine without application. You can't be walking around with your tail between your legs if this is true. You say, you know it. You don't know it. Or let me give you another example. There's a lot of people that know a lot about the Bible but they are self-righteous. They are proud. They're clicky. They're unapproachable. They're condescending. They're condemning. Well, look at this verse. How great, how miraculous. It's a miracle that you're a Christian. Don't you see that you're a sinner saved completely by grace? If there's pride, if there's harshness, you know who these folks are. They're around. They're real. The problem is you don't know who you are. You see, it's easy to spot a proud person. It's almost impossible to spot it in yourself unless God helps you. And I'm hoping he will. But if you're proud, if you're self-righteous, if you're a snob, if you're condescending, if you're always condemning of everyone else, if you've got a critical spirit you haven't seen, you haven't let this purify you, the truth hasn't come home. You know, it's almost, almost more dangerous to have the truth and not let it purify you than it is to not have it at all. Let me give you one other example. People who hate themselves haven't really let the truth purify, but people who have an inflated view of themselves, you know, if you have a deflated view or an inflated view of yourself, you haven't listened. You haven't listened. You're not listening even to verse one. How great, how miraculous that we're children of God. But look at it this way. There are people who say, I know the Bible. I was raised in the church. I know all this stuff. But you are living life the way you want to live. You're using your money. You're using your sexuality. You're using your time. You're using your life in ways that you want to use them, even though you know they're against the, you know, the moral order of the Bible. You know what you're doing? Yeah, you're insulting the majesty of God. Yes, you're insulting the justice of God. You're insulting the law of God. But you know what I think you're insulting first? If you say, I'm a Christian, but I have to sleep with him. I have to sleep with her. I know what the Bible says. I have to sleep with her. You know what? You're insulting the goodness of God. You're saying, if I obey completely, if I submit completely to God, I will not be that happy. He can't satisfy me. If I give myself utterly to him, he won't satisfy me. Verse 1 hasn't gotten through to you either. You're insulting the love of God. You're insulting the goodness of God. That's the principle. The principle is, the way to become pure is not just simply to say, I'm going to be better. I'm going to do it. I'm going to get up earlier. I'm going to read the Bible. That's good, by the way, but that's not the heart of it. I'm going to stop temptation. I'm going to make myself accountable to people. That's good, but that's not the heart of it. I'm going to make all these goals, and I'm going to let people know, and I'm going to chart my progress. That's good, but that's not the main thing. You hope in these things. That means you make them the meaning of your life. You say, this is what I'm living for. You fill your mind with them. Jesus Christ in the boat. Pardon me. The disciples in the boat in Luke chapter 8. Storm. They're afraid they're going to go under. Jesus comes walking to them on the water. Remember that? Peter says, is it really you? Jesus says, it is I. Peter says, can I come to you? Jesus says, sure. Peter gets out of the boat and starts walking to Jesus. He's on the water until he starts looking at the waves. Begins to sink. Jesus grabs hold of him and says, oh ye of little faith. In other words, Peter, you didn't put me in the center. You see, this is the balance between what you call quietism and moralism. On the one hand, this is hard work. On the other hand, you see what you ultimately have to do? Purity flows out of setting your heart on the love of Jesus for you and the Father for you, having made you children of God. Setting your heart on the destiny of glory. Hoping in it. Filling your mind with it. Looking at it. Reflecting on it. Savoring it. Do you know what it means to savor something? To turn it over on your tongue, right? How do you do that with your soul? Reflect, you meditate, you think. You think it out. In other words, the motives for holiness in your life will grow very white hot. If you hope in these things. And then out comes the temptation. See, some quick examples. If Jesus, if the Father now has made you children, think of this. Think about that. His name is on you. All right? You want a motive for holiness? Think about this. You want a motive for purity? Those of you who've got little children, you don't know yet. Your heart's gone. Your children, your identity, your reputation is so bound up in them. When they do well, you feel great about yourself. You can't help it. When they do terribly, you feel terrible about yourself. You can't help it. You almost have to. Because these children are saying to the world, this is what my parents are like. You have the name of God on them. You're a son, you're a daughter, you're children. The world sees who God is through you. To the degree that you understand that, you will receive power not to sin. You think about that. You let it settle in. Or let me just give you another example. Not only should you think of his honor, that you have his name, but you ought to think of the honor that you've got. One of the main reasons why you are subject to temptation, one of the main reasons why you lack self-control, is because you're seeking the honor elsewhere that you've got, simply as a child of God. Look at it. you're going to rule and reign with him forever a billion years from now we won't even remember hardly what a president of the United States or an emperor of Rome was because you will have something far greater than they ever had more glory more power more honor the honor of being a Christian the honor of being a child of God that's the way you deal with temptation you say what kind of applause do I want that I don't already have what kind of satisfaction do I want that I don't already have the last verse of the great hymn no condemnation now I dread Jesus and all in him is mine alive in him my living head and clothed in righteousness divine bold I approach the eternal throne and claim the crown in Christ my own but look no condemnation now I dread Jesus and all in him is mine that's how holiness grows that's how purity grows to the degree you know that the temptations go away how can I be tempted by the same something when I've already got what I want? This is thinking. This is reflection. This is the way holiness grows organically. Everyone who puts their hope in these things, you purify yourself as he is pure. Let's pray. Father, we ask that now as we go to the table, the Lord's table, we will find

that we are getting purified. Because when we take the bread, we're thinking about his broken body. When we take the cup, we're thinking about his poured out life and the wrath of God that you poured into his heart so there's no wrath left for us. The whole idea behind the Lord's Supper is to make something that's kind of abstract something very concrete, something very real. And we see that the more we're able to set our hopes and our hearts on the lavishness of your love, that you would do this for us. The certainty of our glory, which what your son did on the cross procures for us. The more we put our hope in this, the more we will find ourselves becoming purified right this moment. Purify us now, Lord, as we purify ourselves by setting our hopes on these great truths. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.
