Take a look in your bulletin, there's a passage, because I use this one. There's a passage that's printed in your bulletin.

It's 1 John 2, verse 28 to 3. I'm going to read down to chapter 3, verse 3. In our evening services, we are going through, we've started this in the fall, we're taking the year, really, to go through the first letter of John the Apostle

and we're looking at it consecutively, we're going through it in stages and we come, really, to a new, I guess you could say, and now we come to a new section. When it starts, and now, dear children, we're coming into a new section of the letter with some new themes and some new emphasis. So let's read the passage first, and I'm going to read down to verse 3. And now, dear children, continue in him, so that when he appears......we may be confident and unashamed before him at his coming. If you know that he is righteous, you know that everyone who does what is right has been born of him. How great is the love the Father has lavished on us, that we should be called children of God. And that is what we are. The reason the world does not know us is that it did not know him. Dear friends, now we are children of God, and what we will be has not yet been made known. But we know that when he appears, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. Everyone who has this hope in him purifies himself as he is pure. Okay, let's stop right there. Let's take a look at this.

Many of you haven't been here through much of the teaching of this, but the book of John... This first epistle of John is all about knowing God. That's how it starts. John is an old man when he writes this. And if you grow old in Christ... Now, you can grow old and be a Christian and not really get much wiser and deeper in Christ. If you really grow old in Christ, the older folks that I've met who have been Christians for a long time, what happens to them is what happens to John. John starts off his letter saying, Nothing matters except knowing God. That's a paraphrase, of course. But that's what he's doing. He's saying, I am old. I've seen all the troubles. I've seen the dangers. I've seen the miseries of this life. I want you to know it's possible to have complete and full joy in the midst of a miserable life. He says, I've found out how to do it. Knowing God. Everything else will let you down. Everything else will either elude you or if you actually catch it... When the dogs chase a car, what would happen if they actually caught one? Nobody... No one has ever written it. I mean, nobody's ever done it. I haven't done any research. But my understanding is that when they actually catch the car, they just walk away from it because that's the way we all are. We chase things until we catch them. Either they elude us or when we get them, they don't satisfy us. There's not such a big a deal. John says, If you want to have fullness of joy in the midst of a miserable life, a life full of misery, you should know God. Now, in the first part of the chapter, in the first part of the book, he talks about knowing God, but starting here, he starts to tell us why we can know God. And it's very important because up to now he's talked about knowing the truth, having sound doctrine, loving the brothers and sisters, loving God. He's talked about character change and discipline and so forth. And he's talked a lot about doing right. He's talked a lot about that. He says, If you say you know the Lord and you're not living in the light, you're not doing right, you're not obeying the Bible, and so on, you're not a Christian. It's about time he says what he says because he brings up something that is important to bring up or we might begin to think that knowing God is a matter of mechanics. We could start to think knowing God is a matter of effort. He says something here that's extremely important. He says, You know that everyone who does what is right has been born of him. Everyone who does what is right has been born of him.

Every word here is placed, in a very important way, so as to get across some teaching. It doesn't say everyone who's been born of him does right. Though he could say that, that's also true. But he says it this way. Everyone who does what is right has been born of him. What's this teach us? It teaches us several things. Let's take a look at them. First of all, it tells us that it's impossible to live a righteous life as the Bible shows us a righteous life unless you've been born again. Knowing God, being like God, resembling God, is not ultimately a matter of mechanics. It can only happen if there's a vital, organic, internal revolution in the heart that the Bible calls, there's a lot of names, the new birth, the new life. But here it says, born, born of him, spiritually born. You've got to be born again if you're going to do what is right. Now, I mentioned a minute ago, it doesn't say all that are born of him do, right. It says all who do right are born of him. And that is really saying something pretty important. In fact, it's a corrective to a lot of what I say sometimes. And that is, I try to give credit where credit is due. And I try to say, you know, when you look at the other religions of the world, in fact, if you look at not only people of other faiths, but if you look at people with no faith, there's a lot of really good people out there. And there's a lot of people who also love their neighbor as themselves. And there's a lot of people who try to, be compassionate and people who try to be honest and people who are pretty good at these things. And we've said in the past that the various religions are not that different in the ethical systems they put out there. And as I often like to point out that C.S. Lewis, you know, one of my great literary heroes has a book called The Abolition of Man. And in the back of that book, he explains or he shows, demonstrates how all the major religions that are essentially in agreement as to what it means to live a righteous life. They all essentially agree with the Ten Commandments. They're real ethically, in their ethical systems, there's not that much different. And yet John is reminding us of something that I need to remember and that I need to lay out here before you. And that is in the fullest sense of the word, nobody can live a righteous life unless you're born again. Because the life that God puts in front of you in the Bible goes well beyond sets of rules. In fact, now, let me give you an example of this. It was in the early part of the 20th century, not so much now, but in the early part of the 20th century, a lot of people were talking like this. They said, you know, the important thing, the important thing is not whether you believe in all the old doctrines of Christianity, the incarnation, the virgin birth, the doctrine of the hypostatic union of the divine and the human nature is in the person of Jesus Christ, the Trinity, the preexistence of Jesus Christ, and all, ah, you know, these are hard things, they would say. Who knows if these things are true? I struggle with them. But the important thing, look at the wonderful teaching of Jesus about what it means to live a righteous life. What it means to live a righteous life. That's what's important. That's what we have to promote. That's what we have to do. That's what we have to push. If we could just say to the world, you don't have to believe necessarily this or that about Jesus if you'll just do what he says. If you'll just do what is right. He shows you what is right. And generally, people would look at the Sermon on the Mount. Look at the Sermon on the Mount, they say. Look at the beauty of it. Look at, look at, look at the beauty of it. Look at what it says about turning the other cheek. Look what it says about forgiveness. Look what it says about love and peacemaking. Look what it says about how to give alms to the poor. Look at what it says about all these things. These are wonderful things. If we could just live like that. Now, anybody who has really read the Sermon on the Mount and who really understands, and it's true, it's a wonderful, it's an incredible, it's incredible, that's the right word. It's an incredible standard. When you read it, anybody who's got an ounce of humanity says, this is the way people should be. Anybody with an ounce of wisdom says, I want to live in a house with two people who do this. That's where I want to be. I want to live in a family where even one other person does this. I mean, nobody can read the Sermon on the Mount and not be drawn to it. But I'll tell you something, if you understand the Sermon on the Mount and what it actually demands of you, it will drop you down in the dust and you will beg to be blessed. You will be born again. Anybody who says, oh, I don't know whether we believe in born again stuff and all this supernatural stuff. The important thing is if we just follow the Sermon on the Mount, if you see what the Sermon on the Mount really says, if you see the standard of righteousness that's there, you will know you need to be born again or you have no hope, no hope. No one has any hope of living like this. Look carefully. Because first of all, what you have is comprehensiveness. Jesus Christ in the Sermon on the Mount is basically saying, be like me. And when you see, real righteousness, you're looking at Jesus. And Jesus combines virtues that cannot be combined in the natural human heart. Not without some kind of supernatural intervention. Look, for example, some of us are spontaneous. Some of us are reflective. But who's both? Some of us are tough. We know how to confront. Some of us are so patient. Who's both? See? In other words, you keep taking a look at these things. You look at the various virtues. It's very hard to see someone who's very meek and humble and tremendously assertive and bold. Somebody who knows when to be tough, knows when to be perfectly tender. The comprehensiveness of the righteousness that Jesus Christ shows is something that is absolutely impossible for the human heart to produce. If anybody has ever really looked at the righteousness that God lays out in the Sermon on the Mount, that God shows us in the way Jesus did, that's what Jesus Christ moved about. You will say, I can't possibly be like that unless a miracle happens. That's what the new birth is. Anybody who says, Oh, we don't believe in miracles. Let's just follow the ethical teachings of the New Testament. That's a non sequitur. I'm sorry. The only way to possibly be like Jesus, the only way to possibly live, even like the Sermon on the Mount. Look what the Sermon on the Mount does. Not only is it comprehensive. Let me show you another thing. The Sermon on the Mount gives you a standard of righteousness in which there's a complete union, a complete union of heart and will. When it says, Give alms to the poor, what else does it say in the Sermon on the Mount? It says, And don't, remember, don't let your right hand know what your left hand is doing. What's that mean? No self-congratulation.

There should be nothing, there should be no sense of superiority to the poor. There should be not an ounce of it. You should look at the poor and you should say, There but for the grace of God go I. There should be not a single ounce of it. Not a single bit of self-congratulation. Not a bit.

It says, remember what he says? He says, Don't kill. Right. Don't get angry. Hmm. It's getting harder. He says, I say unto you, Don't say to your brother, Raka, which means you fool or you nobody. Don't even resent. Don't even treat somebody with indifference. You see, there's a complete union of the heart. Your motives have to be filled with humility. Your motives have to be filled with love. Your motives have to be, there can't be bitterness. There can't be superiority. There can't be selfishness. Anybody who really sees what is right and who actually begins to do what is right has to be born again. You say, well, what do you mean by that? Well, I mean this. If you really want to see true righteousness, it always is counter your temperament. There's a lot of people out there who are not Christians, who because of natural temperament, some people are very kind, some people are very patient, some people are very, very disciplined, some people have tremendous self-control. And when you as a Christian find yourself going up against somebody who's not a Christian, who just has these natural abilities in these areas, you might say, my goodness, this person is better at being righteous than I am. And in some ways they are. But the righteousness that we're talking about in the New Testament, the righteousness we're talking about in the Bible, is a supernatural righteousness that comes in and gives you things that you could never get on your own. In other words, a really righteous person is not someone who's naturally compassionate. Those of you who tend to be kind of irritable, you get compassionate. Those of you who tend to be very, very impatient, you get patient. Those of you who tend to be very unreflective, you suddenly get reflective. Real righteousness is a supernatural thing that grows and breaks through the barriers of your personality and temperament. Real righteousness is as comprehensive as what we see in the Sermon on the Mount or in the character of Jesus Christ. Real righteousness is a complete union of your heart with your will so that you're never a hypocrite, so that you're always doing what flows right out. And that is impossible unless you're born again. Everyone who does what is right, everyone who's even moving in that direction, everyone who is born again, anybody who thinks, that the Sermon on the Mount is something they can do in their own effort, is not born again. I'll just tell you that right now. They're spiritually blind. Anybody whose eyes have been opened by the regeneration, the spiritual regeneration of their soul, called the new birth, looks at the Sermon on the Mount right away and says, unless you change me, unless you begin to make me into this, I could never do it. And that's, of course, the first step of doing what is right. Now, second thing we learn here. First thing, doing what is right is impossible without the new birth. Secondly, doing what is right is a result of the new birth. It's a result of the new birth. It says here, born of Him. And in the Bible, to be born of Him means what? Well, a couple of words on this. You know, isn't it interesting how whatever book we go into, last year we went through the book of 1 Peter, the year before that we went through Ephesians. Every book you get to gets to this subject. There are plenty of people who say, born again, yes, that's a certain kind of Christianity.

And every time I come to a verse, no matter how it's stated, I'm able to say it, this verse proves that there's only one kind of Christianity, and that's the born again kind. Now, I don't mean to say that if you think of born again Christianity as certain kinds of Protestant denominations, well, all right. But if you say, oh yeah, I'm a Christian, I'm a nice person, I go to church as much as I possibly can, I believe, but I've never been born again. That's for a certain kind of person. Not according to this. Look, if you're not born again, you are not even able to begin to live the life that God wants you to live. You can't even begin. It shows how low your standards are, if you think. Some people can be born again, that's okay for them. Or it shows that you don't understand the magnitude of the beauty and the holiness of Christ, which is put forward as the paragon, the paradigm for all human behavior. You have never seen that. You've never been humbled by that. You don't understand that. If you say, some people can be born again. Unless you feel the need to be born again, you clearly aren't. And if you say, I need to be born again, oh my gosh, I need to be born again, believe it or not, it's happening as you speak. Because you're not capable of it, of saying such a thing. You're not capable of seeing that, unless God was coming in and changing your heart. And when the Bible talks about being born again, it means, for example, the best place, I think, that describes it is 2 Peter, in chapter 1, verse 4, where it says, We're made partakers of the divine nature. We're made partakers of the divine nature. Being born again means, what is implanted in you is something, the Holy Spirit, the nature of God, the DNA of God. What is that? I don't know. That's the best way I can get it across. It's an imperishable seed. It's the divine nature. It's His spiritual DNA. Because as it grows in you, you develop the family likeness. You become children of Him. You develop family resemblance. It's His DNA. Now, before I move on, let me do a little confrontation. It says here, everyone who does what is right has been born of Him. That also must mean that everyone who is born of Him does what's right. What do I mean? I mean this. It's a great privilege to live in New York City and to minister here and to be a pastor. It's a great privilege because the people of New York may not be more troubled and messed up than others, but you're a lot more honest about it. I mean, I haven't figured it out. It could be that you are much, much more messed up than Richmond, Virginia people. It could be you're much more troubled, that you are more in the grip of habits, more in the grip of passions, more in the grip of difficulties. You know, you're more out of control than any other group of people anywhere in the world. You're more out of control than America. Or you might just be much more honest about it, and other people are that way too, and they don't tell. I can't tell which it is, but I do know this. There are you as Christians, you who have been born again. You doubt it sometimes because you keep falling back into the same sin. You doubt it. But you know what? If you weren't, the fact that you're worried about whether you're a Christian, you're concerned about whether you're a Christian, you even wonder if you're born again is a sign that you are. I mean, who else would be wondering?

If you give yourself too much credit when you say, I want to be born again, but I don't know that I am. Well, you know, you're giving yourself too much credit. You're not capable of that unless the Holy Spirit was operating in your life. You who are born again and who are continually going back into the same problem, the same habit, and you say, I cannot change, you're insulting the great person who now lives inside of you. All who are born of him will do right. You know what's coming to you? The DNA of God. Who's God? The Holy One whose eyes cannot even behold iniquity. That means God's nature that he's put in you, even if it's very tiny, even if it's very seminal, it's holiness itself in there. That's acidic in a sense. It will eat through the impure. It will eat through the broken. It will eat through, it will consume the sin in your life. And anybody who says, yes, I'm a Christian, yes, I'm born again, but I just can't get out of this. You see, one of the great things about New York, one of the awful things about New York is the freedom it gives you. And what's awful is you can turn that freedom around. If you were living with a family, if you were living in a smaller town, if you were living someplace else, you wouldn't be able to live the double lives that Christians do live in New York.

Somebody's going to get pretty uncomfortable at this point. You're going to say, gosh, this sermon was just for me. There's probably about 37 of you at least out there. So listen to it now. You are settling for too little. You're saying, I'm a Christian, but I just can't get out of this. And John the Apostle says, and the Bible says, and Jesus Christ says, get up from your mud puddles, I've got an ocean for you. Get up from your ant hills, I've got mountains for you. Don't you see the great thing? The great thing that's inside of you? He looks humble to say, I can't change. You can change anything. Look what's in you. You're born of him. Don't you see?

Doing right is impossible without the new birth. Doing right, secondly, we just said, is the result of the new birth. Let me go a little further. The new birth is a result of an experience of God's love. Now before I get to that, I just have to do one little, tiny, very, very important little tangent. Look carefully. It says, as soon as he talks about being born of him, he says, how great is the love the Father has lavished on us, that we should be called children of God, and that is what we are.

A lot of people get very upset about this. The New Testament says, not everybody is a child of God. You know who was the one who said that most strongly? Jesus Christ. He turned to some of the religious leaders and said, you are not children of God. You are children of your father, the devil, and I see his resemblance in you. Jesus laid it out. Paul lays it out. The Bible lays out that there's two kinds of spiritual DNA in the world. You are either, through Christ, children of God, or else, you're children of the forces of darkness. And you know what the difference is? If you want to see the essence of the DNA of Satan, you can go back to the Old Testament and see where it talks about how Satan fell. There's a very interesting kind of cryptic place in the Old Testament that talks about it, but essentially, this is the language of Satan, and this is the DNA of the spiritual forces of darkness. It says, I will ascend. I will grasp equality with God. I will rule. And then you can look at Philippians 2, and you can see the spiritual DNA of God in Jesus. And this is what that sounds like. I will descend. I will not grasp equality with God. I will serve. In other words, the DNA of the darkness is, I am my own, and nobody tells me what to do. And the DNA of light, and of heaven, and of God himself is, I will serve. I will descend. Command me. You know, we've said it this way. The way up is down. The way down is up. You seek to ascend. You'll be thrown down. You seek to descend and to serve. You'll be lifted up and exalted. And look carefully. Not everybody is a child of God. Somebody says, but we're all creations of God. Sure. You know, Henry Ford is the father of the Model T. Okay? He didn't tuck it in at night. But he was the father of the Model T. He was the creator in a general way. You can say, of course, in a certain sense, he created us all. But we're talking about something very different that we'll get into next week. We're talking about intimacy. We're talking about family resemblance. We're talking about the nature of the father, the nature of the parent, embedded into the child so that the child becomes like the parent. So that the nature of the father spreads slowly and envelops the child. There's two kinds of spiritual DNA. Not everybody is a child of God. Not everybody is born again. And if you're not born again, you're not in a neutral state. Well, somebody says, you mean everybody's walking around unless they're a Christian and they've got satanic DNA in them? Is that what you're saying? Well, you know what? Listen. You may look, listen, a Christian may look very foul on the outside with fair DNA inside. And a person who's an unbeliever might be very fair on the outside with foul DNA. But you know, we believe, as Christians, that human beings, no matter who you are, have immortal souls. Which means we're going to be, everybody in this room, everybody in this room will still be in a state of consciousness a billion years from now. But what kind of state of consciousness? If even in little ways you base your life on saying, I am my own, I am my own boss, I'm going to live the way I want to live, I'm going to do what I want to do, nobody's going to push me around. Now there's very nice ways of doing that. There's ways of kind of creating a life like that's very pleasant on the outside. And there's other people who do the, using the same DNA become mob hitmen, you know? But it's only a superficial difference between those two. And over a long period of time, it's over a long period of time, the DNA will out. That which is in the center of your heart and it's running you, that which is the thing that is really motivating you, it eventually will, the fair DNA will create fair people. The foul DNA will create foul people. They will create monsters.

Your sins will find you out. You will reap what you sow. God is not mocked. That's Galatians 6. Now the last thing, as a kind of looking forward to the future. The new birth happens, not by a sense. The new birth, how do you know you're born again? It doesn't happen when you're just convicted that you're a bad person, that you need God. You know, Martin Luther, John Bunyan, a lot of these famous people were converted. And when they were converted, they went through periods of time before they really were born again, before they really understood the gospel, in which they were always, they got very religious. To get religious is not the same thing as being born again. To get religious is not the same thing as being a Christian. To suddenly say, to get religion, you know, people say, he got religion. That person might be a Christian. When I hear somebody in the subway saying, she got religion, you know, maybe that person became a Christian. See, these are undiscerning people. They can't tell the difference between getting religion and being born again. Because the folks who get religious and start going around saying, I need to be a better person, and they conform their lives, and they start to, they get rid of their habits, and, you know, in an act of the will. And they start coming to church. And they start to study. And they learn what's the right words. And they learn what sort of things get pats on the back in the Christian community. And then they get pretty condescending toward people who don't believe the right things and don't live in the right way. These people are not born again. I'll tell you what it means to be born again. It's when you look up and you start to feel like this. How great. Now, you see, this is a bad translation, my friends. You know what the first word is in the Greek? It comes out in the Old King James. Behold how great is the love the Father has lavished on us. What a shame. That's a bad translation. The first word of verse 1 is, Look. But it's not just the word look. It's the word behold. What does it mean to behold? Look, gaze, focus, see. The love that God has lavished on us. Until you see His love lavished on you, until you start to say, This is an amazing thing. This is a miracle. See? How great is the love the Father has lavished on us. It gets it across a little bit. That we should be called children of God. And that is what we are. What does that is what we are mean?

Some of you are editors. You know that this is an unnecessary phrase. You just said that.

Strunk white. Elements of style. Have you ever read that book? It says, omit needless words. Well, these are needless words. We just said, How great the love of the Father is lavished on us that we should be called children of God. And that is what we are. We just said that. Don't you see what's going on? He can't get over it.

He can't get over it. He'd say it again if he could. He's amazed with the love of God. And until you're amazed with it, until you feel that this is a miracle, until you feel like you're awash in it, you have not been born again. And I'll go one more step. And this is the final point. All of your problems in your life tonight come because you're not beholding that He has made you a child of His. Why do you think He says, Behold? Are you upset right now because somebody's criticized you? You're beholding this instead of that. Are you worried because you feel like God's not letting your life go properly? You're looking at the circle. You're beholding this instead of that. Behold. All of your problems come because you're not beholding. If you're a Christian, to the degree you behold the lavishness of God's adoptive love, to that degree you'll handle criticism, you'll handle worry, you'll handle everything and anything. Walk out of here tonight saying, If I behold that I am a child of God properly, my problems will start to break apart and I'll be able to deal with them. How can I behold that? How can I apply this to my life? How can I do this? How can I behold my adoption? What am I failing to see in the love of God? What am I trying to get out of this? How am I trying to replace the love of God, the adoptive love of God in my life? What's wrong? I'm not beholding. I can't apply this to everybody. I wish I could go through and say, Let me give you 18 or 19 examples of common problems people have that come because they're not beholding. All I can say is, Behold. Behold. You're not born again until you feel this. Yeah, a Presbyterian is talking about feeling. You're not born again until you feel this. We'll continue this next week. Let's bow in prayer. Our Father, we thank you that you show us that being a Christian is doing right, yes. Do the right thing. But, oh, it's so much more than that. We can't do what's right unless we are born of you. We cannot do what's right unless we're born of you. And we can't be born of you until we sense your love shed upon our heart and we see that you can be our Father through the great work of adoption. We pray, Father, that you will help us to behold. You will help us to see this. You will help us to make use of the greatness that's within us. We pray that you'll help us apply these things to our hearts now. For we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.