Tonight's scripture reading comes from Ezekiel chapter 1 verses 4 through 18 and then verses 22 through 28.

I looked and I saw a windstorm coming out of the north, an immense cloud with flashing lightning and surrounded by brilliant light. The center of the fire looked like glowing metal and in the fire was what looked like four living creatures. In appearance, their form was that of a man, but each of them had four faces and four wings. Their legs were straight, their feet were like those of a calf, and gleamed like burnished bronze. Under their wings, on their four sides, they had the hands of a man. All four of them had faces and wings, and their wings touched one another. Each one went straight ahead. They did not turn as they moved. Their faces looked like this. Each of the four had the face of a man, and on the right side, each had the face of a lion, and on the left, the face of an ox. Each also had the face of an eagle. Such were their faces. Their wings were spread out upward. Each had two wings, one touching the wing of another creature on either side and two wings covering its body. Each one went straight ahead. head. Wherever the spirit would go, they would go, without turning as they went. The appearance of the living creatures was like burning coals of fire, or like torches. Fire moved back and forth among the creatures. It was bright, and lightning flashed out of it. The creatures sped back and forth like flashes of lightning. As I looked at the living creatures, I saw a wheel on the ground faces. This was the appearance and structure of the wheels. They sparkled like chrysolite, and all four looked alike. Each appeared to be made like a wheel intersecting a wheel. As they moved, they would go in any one of the four directions the creatures faced. The wheels did not turn about as the creatures went. Their rims were high and awesome, and all four rims were full of eyes all around. Spread out above the heads of the living creatures was what looked like an expanse, sparkling like ice and awesome. Under the expanse, their wings were stretched out one toward the other, and each had two wings covering its body. When the creatures moved, I heard the sounds of their wings, like the roar of rushing waters, like the voice of the Almighty, the tumult of an army. When they stood still, they lowered their wings. Then there came a voice from above the expanse over their heads as they stood with lowered wings. Above the expanse, over their heads, was what looked like a throne of sapphire, and high above on the throne was a figure like that of a man. I saw that from what appeared to be his waist up, he looked like glowing metal,

This is the word of the Lord.

Each week we're looking at one of the attributes of God and how that particular characteristic of God makes a difference to us. And actually, though we'll certainly survey that incredible long passage, it's all in verse 28. What is it we're looking at? The glory of God. When do you know you've grasped the glory of God? when you fall face down? And why can we even have the glory of God, even get near it, because of the rainbow? The glory, the falling face down, the rainbow. What it is, when you know you've grasped it, and why you can. First, the glory of God. This is the most wild and detailed vision of the glory of God in all the Bible. You can find some things in, obviously, Exodus with Moses and in Isaiah chapter 6, but this is, like I said, the wildest and the most detailed. And actually, it's not that easy to envision exactly what it is he saw. It's hard to piece it together, is it not? And that's deliberate. There were four living creatures, which later on in the book of Ezekiel are called cherubim. Each one, from what we can tell, is facing outward. Their wings touching the tips of the other cherubim, creating a box. The cherubim each have not only wings but four heads or faces. And inside the box, there's just an enormous amount of light pulsing, brilliant torches, lightning in and around and through the angels. Above the angels is something like an expanse. We don't even know quite what that means. We think it's a platform. Beside each angel is a wheel, but inside each wheel are wheels. And when the whole thing moves, it sounds like the roar of an ocean or an army charging in attack. And above it all is a throne. And on the throne, there's a man-like figure who is surrounded with brilliant light and looks like metal burning in the fire. And after Ezekiel's done with all this, and it's hard to piece it all together, all he's willing to say is, this was the appearance of the likeness of the glory of God. You see all these qualifiers?

When Moses saw the glory of God in Exodus 24, verse 10, up on Mount Sinai, it says, Moses and the elders went up and it says, quote, they saw the God of Israel and under his feet was something like a pavement made of sapphire clear as the sky itself. Something like an appearance of a likeness. And what they're trying to say, what Ezekiel's saying here is, I'm sketching it, but what I'm showing you, the glory of God is indescribable. And this is one of the reasons why if you go to one of these books that try to lay out the attributes of God and there's lots of books theological books lay out what does the Bible say about his power and his wisdom and his holiness and his justice and his attributes. When they get to glory they struggle. It is really hard to define it. And that's because probably the glory of God is actually the combined

indescribable magnitude of all the attributes put together. Because if you look and you start to say, what's the symbolism of all this stuff? You know the eyes on the wheel? His omniscience sees everything. The wheels, his omnipresence, he can go everywhere. What are all the different faces mean? It's a human face and there's a bull face and a lion face and it's trying to get at all the various attributes of God, his love and his power, his omnipresence and his omniscience. The glory of God is actually the sum total, infinite, indescribable superlativeness of all of his attributes put together that make him what? What? So what are we talking about here? Are you saying you can't define the glory of God? No. And yet, here's what I would say you get from this vision. The glory of God means, first of all, his infinite beyondness. His beyondness. What? Yeah. the effect, the sum total effect of this vision? This is not a tame God. This is not a God you can figure out or expect to figure out. This is a God beyond your comprehension. Now, be careful here. I'm certainly not saying that there's nothing, the Bible says nothing that you can't understand. The Bible says many things about God that you not only can understand and that are true and inaccurate, but it makes sense. But there's a tremendous amount that the Bible says about God that does not make sense, that does not fit in. And this is, I believe this is the attribute that New Yorkers hate the most, the glory of God. Because they're always saying, I don't want to believe in God. I can't believe in a God who would do this or who would judge people. I can't believe in a God. You know what you're saying. I don't want a glorious God. God. I want a God beyond my comprehension. I want a God I can figure out. But when you say, I can't believe in this part of the Bible, a God who does this, it doesn't make sense to me. When you say he's got to make, all got to make sense, everything the Bible says has got to fit into your understanding. What you're really saying, you're insisting on the Atlantic Ocean fitting into a thimble. It can't be done. He's not a tame God. He's infinitely beyond. He's not a God at hand.

So first of all, the glory of God means he's beyond you. Secondly, the glory of God means not only his infinite beyondness, but I would say his supreme importance. The Hebrew word for glory, which you certainly have heard before, because we mention it every so often. The Hebrew word for glory is kabodh, and it means weight, God's weightiness. And you say, what's that? Well, fortunately, we have an English word that has the same lexical range and functions in the same way, and that's the word matter. Because on the one hand, the word matter means, as opposed to immaterial, something solid, something there, and something substantial, but it also means importance. And therefore, when it says God is glorious, it means he should matter, he does matter more than anything else or anyone else. He is of supreme importance. Nothing should matter to you like God. And if anything matters to you more than God, you are not acknowledging his glory. You're giving glory to something else, else got it? What does it mean to give glory? It means to give weight to. It means to give importance to. If you say, I believe in God, but on the other hand, you cheat even on your income tax. You do something to make money. You know it's wrong, but you do it. Then money has more glory. See, money has more weight. Money is more the center of gravity of your life. God is not the glorious one in your life. It's something else. I know that some of you cannot believe this when I say I found something new in J.R.R. Tolkien I'd never seen before. I know some of you are saying, how could that possibly be? Or some of you are saying, why do you keep looking? But there was a, in the 1950s when his books were coming out, there was a woman named Rona Beer who used to write Tolkien and ask him questions about his mythology. And one of them was, she just, you know, when Sauron makes this ring of power and it gets thrown into the fires of Mount Doom, he explodes. Peter Jackson in the movie gives you a really spectacular, he just, he blows up. And she writes Tolkien and says, what's that about? You know, what is this thing? Why is it when you throw the ring in, he's destroyed? What is all that about? And Tolkien, first of all, Tolkien actually said, believe it or not, he actually He said, hey, it's just a story. You know, give me a break. But then he actually went on and said this. He says, and I'd never thought of this or heard this. The ring of Sauron is a mythical treatment of the placing of one's life or power in something external, which is thus exposed to capture or destruction with disastrous results to oneself. What he's talking about? Look, it's one thing to love somebody.

and to get a lot of joy out of a relationship. But if that person breaks up with you and you want to kill yourself, what's happened?

You've actually given that person too much glory. You've made that person the center of your gravity. You've said, if that person loves me, then I know I'm somebody. And that means by putting that much into her or him, if that person takes the relationship away, you explode. Because you turn that person into an idol. You turn that person into a ring of power. matters to you more than God. What the person thinks of you matters more to you than what God thinks about you, right? And what does that mean? It means if anything matters more to you than God, you're putting yourself, you're putting you, you're putting yourself, your heart, into something external which will only lead to destruction. You'll explode.

God's glory means, God's gloriousness means he matters the most. most, which means only if you glorify him and give him the glory, will you have a safe life. So first of all, it means his infinite beyondness. Secondly, it means his supreme importance. And thirdly, it actually means his absolute splendor. Because just one of the things you get from this, besides the beyondness, you know, the complexity of this vision, and his supreme importance, because it's a throne. You see him on a throne. That means that he's the most important thing. His will and who he is should be more important than anything else. But it's also beautiful. There's beauty here. The word in the Old Testament, kabod, for glory, means weight, importance. But the word for glory in the New Testament, the Greek word, which isn't here, of course, but it looks forward to this, doxa, from which we get a word doxology, which means praise and wonder, luminosity, brilliance, or beauty. and Jonathan Edwards at one point said

God is glorified not only by his glory being seen but by its being rejoiced in you hear that it's not enough to glorify God to say well I guess he's got so I've got a knuckle under you have to see the beauty of him and therefore it's not enough glorifying God does not mean only obeying him because you have to. To glorify God means to obey him because you want to. Because you're attracted to him. Because you're delighted in him and you want to do it. You know, I remember the place where Moses on Mount Sinai says to God, show me your glory. Why is he doing that? It's like trembling. Show me your glory. You know what? We need beauty. Whenever I go to places where there's a lot of rich people, it's amazing how beautiful those places are, and I realize those rich people have spent an enormous amount of money to surround themselves with beauty. You spend a fair amount of money trying to make yourself as good-looking as you can.

You also go to very, very, very great lengths to find somebody to go out with who's good-looking.

We spend a lot of money on music, which we should, Because of the beauty of it. Or art. And yet Moses knew. The hunger for beauty in the human soul. Will only be satisfied by this. The absolute splendor of God. And to see him as glorious. Is not just to admit his incomprehensibility. And his beyondness. And to also make him the thing that matters the most. But it's also to work your heart. most pleasurable and beautiful thing that you know. Now, how do you know if you've begun to grasp the glory of God? Because there's a difference between, we always talk about this, there's a difference between people who say, oh, I go to church, or I believe in God, or I believe in Christ, and people who've had a life-changing encounter with God. And sometimes we call that the difference between knowing about God and knowing God. But there's another sense in which Paul says, if the gospel has really changed your heart, you're beginning to see the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. He also says in the same book, 2 Corinthians, that we are actually gazing on the glory of God. Now, wait a minute. On the one hand, nobody can look right into the glory of God because when Moses was asked, show me the glory of God, God said, no, it'll kill you. We'll get back to that. But no one, it would be fatal to be utterly exposed to the glory of God. And yet, in another sense, Paul says, the way you know, you move from just sort of a notion, kind of a general belief, to be more and more actually encountering in a life-changing way God himself, is that you begin to grasp his glory. Now, how do you know if you've begun to grasp his glory? You fall face down. That's what happened to Ezekiel. When he saw the glory of God, I fell face down. What does that mean? Well, sometimes falling face means to humble yourself. Sometimes falling face down means to surrender. I give up. And sometimes to fall face down means to worship and adore. And guess what? It's probably all three. And here's how you know, this is brief, but here's how you know whether you've begun to grasp the glory of God or haven't. One is, falling face down means a humility. When Isaiah saw the glory of God, I'm ruined. I'm unclean. You can't come into the presence of God's light without noticing more your own darkness. You can't come into the presence of God's purity without noticing your own impurity. You can't come into the presence of God's magnificence without noticing more and more your own weakness and smallness. And therefore, one of the marks that you've begun to actually grasp the glory of God, not just believe in God in general, but grasped it, is it knocks you off your high horse. It takes away the self-righteousness. You know, people who are filled with disdain or bitterness, which is always a form of superiority, or mockery, or pompousness, or braggadocio, they have never grasped the glory of God. Never. They haven't fallen face down.

Dr. Martin Lloyd-Jones, when he was preaching on Genesis 32, the story of Jacob wrestling with God tells a story. You know, Jacob, after meeting God, limped the rest of his life. And so Dr. Lloyd-Jones, the preacher, picks up on that and says, years ago when he was young, he heard a bunch of old Welsh ministers, Lloyd-Jones was Welsh, talking about a hot young preacher. And he was a great teacher of the Bible and a great preacher. And he loved preaching on the glory of God, actually. And he was great. And people thronged to hear him. And he was dynamic. And he but one of the old ministers said, yes, but you know, I don't think he's been humbled yet. And they all shook their heads. And Lloyd-Jones suddenly realized, it's one thing to preach about the glory of God, to teach about it very well, to know the Greek and Hebrew words. It's another thing to actually, it's possible to have all that and still have a swagger. And by the way, to be humble, humbled by the glory of God is not unpleasant. you worry? You know why sometimes you're just eaten up with worry? It's because you really don't think God's going to get things right. You don't really think, you know, you feel like God's not going to, I know how my life's got to go and God's got to get it there and I'm not sure he's going to do it. Which is showing a lack of a sense of his gloriousness. How can you say that? You know, know, Habakkuk 2.20, where Habakkuk says, the Lord is in his holy temple, that all the earth keeps silent before him. Like Isaiah, when you see the Lord in his holy temple, high and lifted up, his train filling the temple, you get quiet. You're humbled out of your anxiety. You're humbled out of your self-righteousness. So first of all, there's humility. Secondly, there's a kind of unconditional dutifulness about people who have grasped the glory of God. Why? Because until you grasp the glory of God, God's sort of a tool. You come to church, you pray. Why? You want inspiration. You want forgiveness. You want strength because you're going through hard times. You want information because you really find religion fascinating and all that stuff fascinating. In other words, God's a tool, and you're focusing on all these things, but when you've actually grasped the glory of God even a little bit, you go, you do, you pray, you read, you obey, just to get God. All that matters is your relationship with him. All the rest of the things around your life, they don't matter so much. You know, God really is central, and your relationship to him becomes central. And you're steady at these things instead of bad. So first of all, there's a humility. People who've grasped the glory of God live in humility. They do their duty, and they love his beauty. They love his beauty. They find prayer something not just filled with petition, but with adoration. Now, we're not covering the glory of God in one sermon. There's too much to talk about. We're going to get back to it later on. So let's move There's no way we could cover this subject into one sermon. There's no way we could cover it into two sermons either, but I feel better having said. In other words, every time I start to go down a hallway, I say, no, come on back, and I can't. We'll get back to it later. In fact, any of you ever been exposed to the Children's Catechism? There's a question that says, how do you glorify God? And the answer is by loving him and doing what he commands. That leaves out humility, but not the other two. do. Humility. Do your duty. Love is beauty. That's what it means to acknowledge and grasp the glory of God. Now, how is it possible? In conclusion, how is it possible for us to grasp the glory of God? There's an objective and a subjective problem. And here's what they are. The objective problem we've already talked about. The objective problem was that when Moses said, I want to see your glory, Moses knew that the glory of God is what you and I need,

it fulfills the hunger for beauty, it gives us the significance and security we're looking for in other things. He knew I need to see the glory of God more than anything else, and that's true. And yet God said, if you actually saw my glory full stop, you know, if you had full expression of my glory, it would kill you because I'm holy and you're sinful. So there's an objective problem, but there's also a subjective problem. Because I must say, I don't know if any of you are squirming, when I'm told not only must I give up my right to self-determination, completely forego all my freedom and do whatever God says because I have to, but also because I want to, also because I'm attracted to it. I can't just obey because I have to, but because I want to. I say, well, how do I do that? And the answer to both the objective and subjective problem is the rainbow. This is the only other place in the Bible besides Genesis 9 after the great flood, Noah and the ark, that we have the same statement made, and that is God's bow is in the clouds. Look, Genesis 9, God's judgment, God's justice, he hates evil, so he judges the earth for its evil, flood. After the flood, Noah emerges from the ark and offers up a sacrifice. And when God is pleased with the offering, he says, Here's the sign of my grace. Because I am pleased with your sacrifice, he says, I set my bow in the clouds. And it'll be a sign of grace, a sign that I'm not going to, no more floods. No more great disasters on the earth like that. And notice, in the English translation, it says in Genesis 9 and here, that God's glory was like a rainbow. It says rainbow. the Hebrew word that's actually used in Genesis 9 here. It's actually the word for war bow. See, your war bow was what you did, what you used to kill people. And the arrows of God's wrath, the bow, the arrows, was a metaphor for God's hatred of sin. And therefore, when God said to Noah, I'm going to lay my bow in the clouds, I'm going to lay it up in the clouds, it was his way of saying peace, no more wrath, no more judgment. I see your offering and no more judgment. And he lays his bow in the clouds. And all the commentators have always said, see, the rainbow is the shape of a bow. And it's a fascinating way of saying that when you see the rainbow, you must realize that it's a sign of God's grace, that his bow has been laid up. No longer is he going to come down with the arrows of his wrath and flood the entire world and so forth. But Charles Spurgeon, the great Baptist preacher, years ago preached on Genesis 9, and it's a sermon I never forgot because he said, he says, you know, it's significant which direction the bow is pointing. Think about this, everybody. Last time you saw a rainbow. Does the bow go like this? That would be the war bow pointed down. That would make me kind of nervous. That would be like God saying, well, I'm not shooting you right now, but you better watch out. Any time. Zing. No, as Spurgeon said, isn't it weird? It's a real sign of grace because the bow is pointed upward. The only place for the arrows to go is up. And Spurgeon says, almost as if God is hinting that I love you and I'm not going to judge you, and if necessary, I'll take the arrows of my judgment myself. And Spurgeon says, that's weird. Where in the world could that have ever happened? And of course, the answer is that centuries later, there was another offering, not by Noah, but by Jesus Christ. He came to earth, and what did he do? What happened? He took the arrows himself. He took the arrows of justice. He took the punishment. He took the penalty we deserved. And what does that mean? That means now we don't just have no flood. There's no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. You say, what's that got to do with glory? Absolutely everything. The radiance of God's glory is the shape of a rainbow. It's the color of a rainbow. Meaning what? Jesus Christ had the glory of God, but when he came to earth, he emptied himself of his glory. What does that mean? He had no beauty that we should desire him, he was despised and rejected. Everything that glory means, beauty, honor, importance, Jesus had. He was stripped of it all. He was stripped of his beauty. He was beaten to a pulp. He was stripped of his honor. He lost all the glory he had. Why? So that someday we could be clothed in his glory so that we could have the praise of God. Someday God's going to look at us and say, well done, good and faithful servant, because we're clothed with the righteousness of God's smile. We're going to get God's applause. We're going to get God's praise. We're going to get the thing that your heart's always wanted more than anything else that you've been trying to get in the approval of others and in performance and everything else. Oh no. Don't look for it anywhere else but here. And how do you know that not only can you get some of it now and you're going to get it fully later, it's because Jesus lost all his glory so that we could have it. Look at that. That solves the objective problem. That's the reason why when Jesus died, ripped in the tavern and the temple. That means the glory of God is no longer fatal to you. It can come into your life. That solves the objective problem, but it also solves the subjective problem because when I see Jesus doing that for me, I do want to obey him. I do want to trust him. That's beautiful. The cross is beautiful. The giving up of his glory is the most glorious thing that's ever happened.

As Paul says, even now, even now, God who said, let light shine out of darkness, made his light to shine in our hearts to give us the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. That's where you'll find the glory of God. Let's pray. Our Father, we ask now that you would help us to learn how to glorify you more, learn how to appreciate and love your glory, because that's what's going to change and transform us. We ask that now as we commune together, you would show us a little more of your glory in the face of Jesus Christ, and we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.
