Some of you were here last week, some of you weren't, and therefore here's what we're talking about. First of all, Paul says that we're one body. See that in verse 4? Make every effort to keep the unity of the Spirit through the bond of peace. There is one body and one Spirit. Then he says, because we are one body, we're part of Christ's body, it says in verse 7, to each one of us, grace has been given as Christ apportioned it. to try to sum up basically what we said last week. This is an amazing statement and something that a lot of you don't believe. That is that when we become Christians, when we are converted, and we talked more about that last week, when we give ourselves to Christ, it's not like signing up for a class so now that you're going and listening to a great teacher. Instead, you become part of the body. That means our association with Jesus Christ greater than a mere association. There's a living unity, a living relationship. If you believe that being a Christian simply is saying, I'm going to live like Jesus Christ. He's my paradigm and he's my ideal. You've missed the essence of Christianity. Now, of course, a Christian is somebody who says, I'm going to live like Christ. That's absolutely true. But if you think that's what the essence of being a Christian is, you're wrong. Because there's a lot of other people who are not really Christians who also make use of Jesus Christ as a model for their life. To use maybe a distant illustration, if somebody said, what is a soldier? And you said, I'll tell you the definition of a soldier. A soldier is somebody who wears a helmet. You would be missing the mark. Why? Well, soldiers do wear helmets. Of course they wear helmets because they need helmets on. But lots of other kinds of people wear helmets too. So you've missed the essence of what a soldier is. You've described the soldier. But you haven't really given me a definition. So we can describe a Christian as saying. Someone who wants Jesus to be their ideal. And their model. But it's not the essence. As a matter of fact. I want you to know. That as a Christian. As a great model. And human ideal. As a paradigm for our behavior. Jesus Christ is a failure. Not because he's not a good model. But I'll tell you this, and maybe some of you are in my boat. For a long time, especially as a teenager, I said that's what I want to do. I want to live like Jesus. I was taught that I should live like Jesus, and I tried to make him my model, but he was a failure because all he does as a model is make you feel inferior. He can't help it. He's so wonderful. and making him a model. Just saying I'm going to model my life on Jesus is a little bit like watching a play. When the curtain is up, there you see him up on the stage in all the lights. And the stage is full of light and joy and glory. And you're kind of out here kind of looking at it. And then the curtain comes down and you're left in darkness. And if that's all that Jesus is, a model, a great guy, a wonderful person who lived for a few years and showed us what it human being, he's a failure. Because not only was he there, and not only is all he does is make you feel like I can never live up to that, but at a certain point down came the curtain and we're left in the darkness. He's a failure as an ideal. The Bible says that's not all he is. Rather, he is someone who's still alive, and that when you believe in him, and when you begin to live for him, him, he actually comes into your life with his own vitality. You are, when you're a Christian, a member of his body. A cell, a member, my finger or a cell is a member of my body because the cell is united to the rest of my body with living tissue. There's blood. There's, right, Lane? There's other things. Chromosomes. There's DNA. There's all sorts of things, right, that keep my body together. In the same way, to be a Christian means that the Holy Spirit has come into your life, has regenerated your heart. That's what it means to be born again. And that automatically and instantly means that the very nature and lifeblood of God has come into your life, uniting you with everyone else by, in a sense, living tissue with everyone else who has ever made the same step. And you're part of the body. Don't you see? You're not just associated with Christ, you're one with Him. now what comes into your life when the Spirit of God comes into your life according to chapter 4 among other things are spiritual gifts and a spiritual gift it says here to each one of us grace has been given as Christ apportioned each one of us and he therefore made some to be prophets some to be evangelists some to be pastors and teachers what he's saying is Jesus Christ had tremendous ministry power

To serve people in such a way as to build them up and to change and transform them and to make them all that God created them to be. Jesus was a minister par excellence. He knew how to serve people in a way that always was effective. That always built them up. That always changed them. Never undermined them. Never mixed them up. He was clarity itself. He was wholeness itself. The Bible tells us that when now you become a believer

into your life comes, among other things, part of his ministry power. Part of his ability. Not all of it, but part of it. And therefore, every one of us has part of his ability. Some of us are good at some of the things he did. Some of us are good at other things that he did. This is the only possible way to understand what Jesus meant when he said to his disciples, you will do greater works than I. Why? Now, when you read that, you wonder, don't you? What in the world could he mean? How in the world could we do greater works than Jesus? What human being has ever been, even the godliest person, even a Saint Paul or someone like that, how could any of them ever done greater works than Jesus? I think when Jesus said that, he was saying, you all. Not that he was from the south, but that he was, he was, it was the second person plural. He is saying when all of my ministry powers are resident in me, I can only be one place at a time. You know, here I am the incarnate Christ on earth. I can only be one place at a time, but if I go to heaven and I send out my ministry powers into all sorts of people, then suddenly I can penetrate every neighborhood. I can penetrate every level of society. I can penetrate every nationality. Like salt, I get into everything. Like yeast, I get into everything and transform everything into my likeness. And therefore, we go on out with these abilities. And that's the reason why Paul was able to say, mentioned this last week, in Ephesians chapter 2, he was talking to the Ephesians and he writes them a letter. And these people live in, you know, in Asia Minor, in Turkey. And he says, Christ came and preached peace to you. And when you read that, you say, how could that be? Why would Paul say that Christ came and preached peace? We know that Christ never left Palestine. We know Christ never went to Ephesus. What is he talking about? The only answer could be that he means that when some human being came to Ephesus and began to teach the message of the gospel using a gift of teaching or a gift of outreach, it was basically, in a sense, Christ preaching to them. Because Christ's powers are now out in every one of us, to each, everybody in this room who is a member of the body of Christ, to each, the ministry power of Christ has come into your life. The ability in some special way to serve people so that they are changed and transformed. Now, we said, therefore, the way to understand, spiritual gifts in terms of the body. Here's a body. Not perhaps the greatest example, but the one that you all happen to be looking at the time. If I gave you any other example, you'd all have to crane your necks or something like that. Well, my body's full of different parts. Here's a finger. And the finger is in a kidney. Let's face it, there's a lot of things that it can't do that a kidney can do. There's a lot of things that a kidney can't scratch my nose when I get an itch and so on. Every part of the body has something it does that only it can do, and it's all knit together in such a way so that you have a team. A body is a team. In the same way, Paul says, we can understand Christ's body. Every one of us has a different thing that we can do. When we're all doing it together, we have all the ministry powers of Christ available to impact the community, and in a sense, Christ can preach in New York City. Christ can work with poor people. Christ can counsel distressed people. Christ can heal relationships. Christ can do mercy and service and helps and exhortation. Christ can do that in New York. Why? Because we're here. Now, the second thing, which is a little bit, it's another slant on it. One thing that you'll find out about Paul, especially as we go through here, is like every good communicator, he's constantly repeating himself. Mark Twain says, if you want to communicate, first tell them, then tell them what you told them. Remember? Have you heard that one? Mark Twain says, if you want to communicate, you should have three points. First, tell them what you're going to tell them. Then tell them. And then tell them what you told them. Three points. And that way, you know that people get you. Paul's the same way. Paul is now going to tell us about gifts verses 7, 8, and 9, especially 7, 8, and 9, in a very different way. First of all, he tells us about gifts in terms of the body of Christ. Now he tells us about gifts in terms of the kingdom of Christ. To each one of us, grace has been given. This is why it says, when he ascended on high, he led captives in his train and gave gifts to men. What does he ascended mean except that he also descended to the lowest, lower earthly regions. He who descended is the very one who ascended higher than all the heavens in order to fill the whole universe. And it was he who gave some to be apostles, some to be prophets, some to be evangelists, some to be pastors and teachers, and so on. We'll get to that later. Now that's confusing. Wasn't that confusing? Come on, admit it. You don't know what he means. And it's a hard thing to know what he means. What does all this ascends stuff? Now, first of all, when Jesus is spoken of as being the one who ascended, there's a place where Jesus says the only one who's ascended to heaven is the one who descended to heaven, is descended to earth from heaven. And here, we talk about he ascended means that he descended to the lower earthly regions. When you hear the word ascend, ordinarily, in English, it means to go up. I ascended up here, and Jeff White descended. And that's why you know that you've crossed halftime into the second half of the service. But ascend can just mean to go up the steps. But the word ascend also can have a technical meaning. Can it not? What else can it mean? To ascend might not mean just physical going up. But it also has a technical meaning. It means to come into power. It means to rule. It means to ascend to the throne. That's why Jesus can say the only one who ever ascended to heaven descended from heaven to earth. Because plenty of people have gone to heaven. And that's not what he means when he means go up. When we talk about the ascension of Christ, we mean that he has taken over the rule. He has come up and now he's beginning to rule. And that's when he gave gifts to men. Why? And women. Why? All right. Here's why. Now I'm going to have to recap something that we talked about at length three or four weeks ago, but I know that plenty of you weren't here. The kingdom of God is the power of Jesus Christ when he is in charge of something. When he's in charge of something, it's healed. Now, a lot of you have heard this, but I'm going to have to kind of rather quickly recap it and go into a little bit more detail on a different slant than we covered a month ago. the mess that they are in. Because everything is built to be under the lordship of Jesus Christ. Let me ask you a quick question. This is pretty simple. You all know it. What does a jogger on Venus and a snowman in Miami have in common? And what is a jogger in Venus and a snowman in Miami and a fish watching TV on a couch, and a train, a subway turning left and going down the FDR Drive, what do they all have in common? They all have in common is they're all doing something they're not built to do. A jogger, when he jogs in Venus, is going to die because his lungs can't take in that wonderful Venetian atmosphere, all that wonderful ammonia gas and stuff like that. His lungs aren't built for that. is alienation. His lungs are in an alien environment and he begins to experience breakdown. A snowman ordinarily doesn't live very long in Miami because snowmen melt in a place they need to be in the Arctic. What does a fish on a sofa have to do? A fish is built for the water. If he's on the sofa, he's going to die. A train is built for the tracks. If he goes down the highway, it's going to crash. or crack. In the same way, the Bible says every problem that there is, every problem, comes because everything is built to be under the complete management of Jesus Christ. If you put something in under the management of Jesus Christ, it begins to heal and be restored. Under the kingdom. See, I know this. When I come in underneath the kingdom of Christ, when I bring something in under the kingship of Christ, it begins to heal. You see, for example, I know that if I have a relationship in my family that's going poorly, if I find out that there's a lot of tension and there's a lot of yelling and there's a lot of bitterness, I've got to sit down and say, Hey, what's wrong? Now, as a Christian, I know what has to happen. I've got to bring this thing under the kingship of Christ. I have to say, What am I doing wrong? Where am I disobeying what Jesus says, the King says in his word? a grudge? Am I failing to pray about this and lift this relationship up in prayer? Am I neglecting to give this relationship the priority it ought to have in my life? There's all sorts of things that the Word of God tells you should be doing. And in order to bring it into the kingship of Christ, what I have to do is I have to start to obey. I have to repent. I have to pray. I have to ask for the Spirit to come on in and work. And to the degree that I bring that relationship in my own heart in under the Lordship of Christ, to that degree, I begin to experience some restoration. Restoration of the brokenness. You see that? That happens in a relationship. That happens for a heart. Many of you know that though it's a process, if you bring your anxiety in under the Lordship of Jesus Christ, it begins to get whole. You know how we like to talk about it here. When you worry, what you're really doing is you're saying, oh Lord Jesus Christ, you're in charge of history. And I'm afraid that you don't get it right. I'm afraid you're not doing it right. I'm afraid that I know exactly what needs to happen in my life. And if I was in charge of history, I would be doing it just right. But I'm not sure that you're going to get it right. That's That's what worry is. Now, as time goes on, how do you deal with worry? You trust in his kingship. Worry is a refusal to give him the kingship. That's why Martin Luther always has said to Melanchthon, his friend who is a tremendous worrier, he used to say, let Philip stop ruling the world. Whenever he would be worrying, Luther would say, Philip, you know why you're worrying. You're trying to rule the world again. Oh, yeah. Thanks, Martin. He says, that's right. I forgot. You see, my wife has a little similar kind of thing to say to me. She says, there you go, trying to be the Holy Spirit again, which is another way of saying, you can't, here you are trying to be in charge of something, trying to be king of something that you don't have any real control over. Will you let him be king of that? You see, the odd thing about our lives is, we spend all kinds of time, all kinds of time, trying to be king of areas that we ought to let Jesus be king of. And trying actually to abdicate certain areas of our lives where we need to be in control. And trying to take control where we need to abdicate. To bring my anxiety under the Lordship of Christ. To bring my relationship under the Lordship of Christ. To bring any of these things under the Lordship of Christ means that there's a healing that goes on. There's restoration. What then was Jesus when he ascended and he took his kingship and then he gives out gifts? Because you see, gifts are kingdom powers. A spiritual gift is the ability that you have to bring somebody more into the lordship and kingship of Christ so that there's a restoration in that person's life. Now, you know, you can have very large and you can have very small examples of that. that. A very good friend of Jeff's and Rebecca's is a man named Mark Gornick, and I hope that someday he can come on up here because I'd like him to tell you what he's doing. He hasn't done anything that you're going to see many, it's not the sort of thing people are going to write a book about yet, but here was a fellow, a white middle-class kid. He and another family decided to move into the very poorest area of Baltimore, and they said, how can we bring this neighborhood under the Lordship of Christ. So what did they start to do? They started to obey their king. And they started to use their gifts. One of the things they did was they moved into that poor area and began to make friendships. They just befriended the people around them. And they began to use their gifts to help people. Here's a kid that has absolutely no interest in staying in school. Family doesn't support him. So what they do is they support him. They begin to use their spiritual gifts of exhortation, of mercy, of helps. They begin to try to befriend Him. They try to find some money to help Him have a scholarship. They try to encourage Him to stay in school. They start to talk to Him about Christ. And what they're doing is they're using their gifts in order to bring wholeness in that one life. And then what happens? Then they say, You know what we need to do? This area needs better housing. So they begin to rehab houses. They begin to get people to volunteer to rehab the houses. They get people to give money to enable them to rehab the houses. And then they take a family that they've been working with and they've been using their spiritual gifts in a particular way and they give the house to the family. It stabilizes the life of the family spiritually because they're hearing about Christ and coming to the church that meets in Mark's home. It stabilizes their life socially because they finally are out from under tremendous rents that they pay for housing. It deals with their lives physically because it's a healthier environment. It deals with their life psychologically, and there's healing happening partially, not fully yet, but substantially simply because of the kingdom powers that reside in the hearts of this guy and this family that moved on in there. What are they doing? They're following their orders from the throne. The orders came out from the throne along with our spiritual gifts. Spread the kingdom. You've got ministry power that I had and now it is dispersed amongst the people of God. You're agents of the kingdom. You're members of the body. Get to it. That's what this is all about. Let me tell you another way to think about this that might be of some help. And if I had a blackboard, I would use it. But imagine, for a moment, four circles. Four 10th century circles. Think of it like a bullseye. Let me show you for a minute that these four circles, first of all, represent layers of our problems that have been caused by sin. Some of you have heard this before, but this is not for a long time. It's very important. I just wanted to change the scenery, if you're wondering. Besides, some of you over here look guiltier than the ones over here. And I thought I'd get after you. Four. When God put Adam and Eve in the garden. We see in Genesis chapter 3. That Adam and Eve decided they were going to live their own lives. They were going to be their own masters. And so they disobeyed God. And the minute they disobeyed God. The minute they took mastery over their own lives. The minute they sinned. Four things happen. And think of my four concentric circles. In the center, the first thing that happened was instantly, you might say, humankind was cut off. Man was cut off from God. Because we see in Genesis 3 that as God comes walking on by, God used to take a walk with Adam and Eve in the cool of the evening every night. Can't believe. Well, they used to take a walk with Adam and Eve in the cool of the evening every night. and that night God came by to take his walk and when God drew near, Adam got scared and he hid. The hiding represents the fact that in our state now, the condition we're in now, every one of us wants to be our own masters and as a result, the presence of God is traumatic. We cannot live with him and we cannot live without him. That is the condition. That's the reason that you feel the way you do. That's the reason that you feel that every human being feels like you're just caught between things that just brine you. You are caught because on the one hand, you can't live with God and on the other hand, you can't live without Him. Because of our sin, we're cut off from God. Why? Because we don't want Him. We want Him because we want the love that comes from Him and we want the glory. We want Him, but we don't want Him to be our Master. So when he draws near, we get scared. We're afraid to lose the mastery. And I call that spiritual alienation. That means we're alienated from God. Man is alienated from God. Right? That's not all that happened. The other thing that we see is when God drew near, not only did Adam hide, but he experienced fear. He says, God says, where are you, Adam? And Adam says, I'm in the bushes. Why, God says. He says, because I heard you come and I was afraid. You see, spiritual alienation has led to psychological alienation. Because man is alienated from God, man is also alienated from himself. Because we don't know who God is, we don't know who we are. Where do you think the problems come of lack of identity, anxiety, fear, guilt? All of the psychological problems come because, as St. Augustine put it, us. And the only thing that will fill it is God. If you think, you know, have you ever seen a, well, have you ever seen a keystone at the top of an arch and you have all the other blocks around it? If you take the keystone out, what happens to the rest of the blocks? Well, every block is leaning on every block, is leaning on every block, is leaning on every block. And they're all leaning on the keystone. You pull the keystone out, the whole thing falls apart. In the same way, you pull God out of the center of a heart, which is where God's supposed to be. All the other pieces fall on top of one another. They're all there, but they're not in any kind of coherent relationship to one another. And because of our spiritual alienation, there's also psychological alienation, but that's not all. We also see that when Adam and Eve sinned, before that they were naked. And as soon as they sinned, they became ashamed. It's pretty interesting. They had to make themselves close. To hide from each other. As soon as man begins. To hide from God. He hides from himself. And as soon as man begins. To hide from himself. He has to hide. From other human beings. Because. You see. Spiritual alienation. From God. Man is alienated. From God. Leads to. Psychological alienation. Man is alienated. From himself. And that. Leads. To social. Alienation. We are. Alienated. From each other. really be vulnerable with each other. We can't really be truthful with each other. We can't really open up to each other. The psychological internal problem creates interpersonal problems. C.S. Lewis puts it like this. If you had a bunch of, well, if you had two cars going down the road like this. You were driving in one lane. The other car was driving in another lane. You're driving along at fifty miles an hour. And you notice, you look over in the other car and you see that the passenger has a knife and is attacking the driver. And you wouldn't say, well, that's not going to bother I mean, that's their problem. That's in that car and it has nothing to do with me. Of course you wouldn't do that. You would try to get away from them because you say, hey, an internal problem like that inside the car is quickly going to lead to erratic behavior on the part of the driver and I could crash. Because there's something wrong with us on the inside, that's why all of our social problems happen. James 4 says, why are there so many wars and fighting among you? It's because of the passions inside of you that are warring and fighting amongst themselves. So oppression and injustice and crime and family breakdown and labor management struggles and, as we said, injustice and war itself, all of these ways in which their social alienation comes out of the psychological alienation, comes out of the spiritual alienation. Do you remember these four circles? One leads to the next, leads to the next. The Bible also tells us not only are we alienated from God, from ourselves, and from other human beings, but we're also alienated from nature. Because in Genesis 3, God says, Cursed is the ground because of you. And now, even though I originally made you a person who had dominion over the ground, now the ground will not any longer cooperate with you. You used to be Lord of nature. But now. Nature is your enemy. And. You will. Fight. With. All. Of. Your. Life. And. In. The. End. It. Will. Win. Because. In. The. End. You'll. Fight. With. The. Dust. And. Toil. In. The. Dust. And. In. The. End. The. Dust. Will. Get. You. And. That. Means. We're. Not. Only. Alienated. From. God. And. I once saw a humor column in a woman's magazine that went like this. What's public enemy number one for us? Now, I think this is good housekeeping, so you know where it's coming from. What's public enemy number one? Dirt. We fight against dirt all of our lives. Dirt in the diaper. And next thing you know, there's more dirt in the diaper. or dirt on the dishes, dirt on the rug, dirt everywhere. And he says, you fight against dirt all your life and what do you get for it in the end? Six feet of dirt. And what she was saying was exactly what God says in Genesis 3. In the dust you will toil all of your life and in the end the dust will win. All of our alienations, all decay, all problems, all flow out of sin. Do you see that? It doesn't mean if you're sick today that God is punishing you for some sin you did yesterday. But we do mean, the scripture says very clearly, that sickness and death itself and all the things that we suffer are all the results, the consequences, the end of the chain reaction that started when we decided we were going to be our own masters. pastors. What then is the kingdom of God? The kingdom of God is the restoration of every one of those areas. The kingdom of God is the power of Jesus Christ so that when you put any area under his lordship, there's healing. Until the end of time, it will only be partial. When he comes back, it'll be complete. But though it's partial, it's substantial. That's why in Psalm 96 it says, let the heavens be glad, let the earth rejoice, let the sea roar and all that fills it. let the fields exult and all that's within them before the Lord because he comes to judge the earth. When Jesus judges, that means to rule. When Jesus judges the earth, the trees will blossom. You think the trees look nice now? They're nothing compared to what they're going to be like when he comes back to rule over them in totality. They're going to sing. I don't know what that means. The psalmist doesn't really tell you what that means. It means if you looked at nature right now It's nothing compared to what it will be. Just take a look at a crumpled up old picture of a mountain and compare it to the mountain itself. And that's how the nature of the future will relate to the nature of the present. And that's just nature. Wherever Jesus Christ is reigning, there is partial but real healing. Do you know what the gifts of Jesus Christ are then? they are gifts to reverse and restore the alienation in every sector. Some of you have got spiritual gifts to work with people. Like for example, let's go back to Mark Hornick who moved into that nasty area of Baltimore. Let's look at him. Some of the gifts of that church, that little church that he's put together, are aiming right at the center, spiritual alienation. When you do evangelism and that sort of gift, you're actually saying, I want to heal and deal with the alienation from God, which is the basic alienation that all the others flow out of. But what if you have a gift of counseling and exhortation? Then you're working at the psychological area. What though, you see, when Mark evangelizes and shares his faith with the kid next door, he's working at spiritual alienation. in Mark's church sits down and tries to help them rehab a house. He's working at the social and physical alienation. And when somebody sits down and tries to help this kid stay away from drugs, he's working at the psychological alienation. When he has the, you see, the gifts work all the way through. The big difference, by the way, is that the gifts that work on the center circles are word gifts. They're talking gifts. Gabbing gifts. Like the one I've got. Because the needs of people the inner circle needs are not obvious to people. But the outer circle needs are. Because the outer circle needs are felt needs. A person knows if they're hungry. A person knows if they don't have a roof over their head. A person knows if they're lonely. Those are felt needs. And the kinds of spiritual gifts that deal with those outer circle needs are called deed gifts in the Bible. You don't need to talk. You're like the Good Samaritan. You do mercy, and you do helps, and you do service. Working with the inside needs is a little bit weirder. And some, because you see, you don't need the Holy Spirit to see that you're hungry, but you do need the Holy Spirit to see that you need Jesus. But either way, the gifts of the Spirit are kingdom powers to bring healing to every single area of life. Do you realize what happens when a church gets itself together and starts to say these things? Do you realize how radical it is when, first of all, everybody, everybody in the church says, I have got ministry that I've got to do. There are certain people that only I can help because of my unique gift mix that God's given me. I don't know who they are yet. I don't even know what the mix is. I've got to discover that and find it. I don't know who they are or what they are. But I've got that. I can't just sit and be a consumer in church. I've got, there's alienation rings out there to heal. Go home and tell that to your roommate. I've got to heal the alienation rings of New York City and they'll say,

sure you do. That's the first thing. But then secondly, if you realize, we have got to find out Jesus Christ wants our particular church to impact the city, he will govern through the gifts. He will govern. He's king. Therefore, he tells the church, any local church, what it should be doing through gifts. Now, how does he do that, you say? Well, listen, keep this in mind. Is the church a democracy or is it a dictatorship? Now, don't answer that. Let me answer that. Some people say, Some people say, well, did you get it? Some people say, well, a church is a place where you elect your own officers and leaders, so it's a democracy. And some churches are like that. And other churches, you say, well, the church is more of a dictatorship because certain people have got this power and they kind of choose the other leaders. But actually, my dear friends, if a church has an election, you're not supposed to elect the people you want. you're supposed to look around us in our midst and say who has God gifted for this ministry? Who has God gifted for this? Who has God given these things to? All you do when you have an election, supposedly this is what the Bible says it's supposed to be is that you are trying to find out what, who God has given you to do what in some ways the church is a little bit like a connect the dots exercise if you've got kids, you've bought them these little books and these connected dots. All these little dots. And it goes, now, draw a line from dot one to two, then do to four. And when you draw it all, you suddenly see, oh, it's an elephant or it's a horsey or something like that. But not until you connect the dots can you tell what it is. You guys are all dots. I have no idea what God wants the church to be here. I'm not going to make the same mistake twice. I went to a church in Virginia. and I was a, you know, I was a Northeastern college kid, and I had all my life always lived in communities full of college students and so forth, and the only churches I'd ever seen were full of teachers and students and people having seminars and people with notebooks. That was my idea of spirituality, always taking notes on things, people learning all these things. So my idea of a great church was a church full of education and learning and seminars and so on. And God, as a practical joke, gave me a church in which none of my officers, when I first got there, had finished high school. In a town where only 5% of the graduates of the high school went on to college. And I sat down and said, first of all, I would give people books to read, and they couldn't get them. They didn't get them. and in the ten years I was there I found probably at the most two people with a gift of teaching and after four or five years of trying to turn them into a church like I'd seen in my college town a church full of talking gift people slowly began to realize these people were really good at working with the elderly these people were really good at working with single parents these people were really good at working with kids in nursing homes these people had deed gifts These people were better at working at the outer circle needs. These people were better at lots of other things. And it took me years before I started to connect the dots and see that the Church didn't at all have the shape that I thought it was going to have. Jesus Christ governs through gifts. Jesus Christ tells us exactly what we should be doing and who should be doing what through gifts. But the only way to do that is, To connect the dots means. You've got to figure out where you are. You've got to. And we're not going to talk about this. This week. Next week. We're going to talk about. I'm going to wrap up here. In about. Two or three minutes. Next week. We're going to go on. And we're going to say. How does somebody. Discover your calling. How do you discover. What your ministry is. If God's. Calling you. To certain kinds. Of ministry. And has given you. Certain gifts. What gifts. What are they. How do I know. What they are. Talk about it. Next week. But. Here's what. I want. Here's. How. how I want to wrap you up. When we say that Jesus Christ is the head and we're the body, I want you to know, I'm ready for this side now. I want you to consider what that means. Ephesians chapter 1 talks about the body in this way. In verse 22, he says, And God placed all things under his feet and appointed him to be head over everything for

Now this is a scary thing. What is the fullness? fullness. It's a little Greek word called, that's the Greek word pleroma. Because we are his body, Paul says, we are his fullness, we're his pleroma. Now, that's been a hard thing for people to figure out. A lot of scholars and a lot of Bible students have argued about what it means, but I guess the consensus is something like this. Somebody's fullness, this word pleroma, means that which reveals who the person is I'll give it to you a couple of ways

what is in my head the only way you can really tell generally what's in a person's head is by what they're doing with their body if you see a body get up and go to the refrigerator you know something the head wanted something to eat. The body reveals what's in the head. If the body comes over and punches you in the nose, you know that the head is angry at you. This is how you know what's in the head. The church's Christ fullness means literally that we are his glory, it means that the way in which the world can tell what he's like is by looking at us. Now, this is a bad thing. This is a great thing and yet a bad thing. There's a place in Isaiah 49, some months ago I read, where it says, Jerusalem, your sons will return to you. How will you wear them like ornaments? and I began to realize, I have sons, you know, and I began to realize what Isaiah was talking about. Your sons are another good version of your fullness or your glory. Your children tend to show the world what you're like. That's the reason why if your child's getting an award, you go to the awards banquet, if your child's, you know, on honor roll, you go to the banquet, and you go like this. Beaming. Why? Because it really doesn't matter what you're really like. But when your child does well, it reflects well on you. Your child is saying to everybody, this is what my family is like. If your child is well-behaved, if your child is great, if your child is radiant, if your child is wonderful, what happens is the parents just feel tremendous because the child is their fullness. The child is their pleroma. And the child, by his behavior, her behavior, is saying to the world, here's what my parents are like. On the other hand, I've been down to jails and had to sit and pray with parents who are waiting for the police to finally come out and say, here's what's going to happen to your child because your child was found shooting up a store. Your child was found dealing with drugs. And, you know, I realize that when you, I haven't been through that. sitting with those parents, I began to realize this was more than just the sadness that you feel for somebody you love. There's also a deep kind of despair and a deep kind of hurt and a deep humiliation that goes right into the heart because the child who's in jail is saying to the world, this is what my family, this is what my father is like. My father's ugly. My father's hideous. The Bible is telling you that because you're the body, what you do with your gifts, what you do with your resources, what you do with your life, is the way in which the world is going to find out what Jesus Christ is like. You reflect on Him. You show the world what He's like. The world knows what He's like through you. To the degree that you grasp this, you will receive power to change. to the degree that you grasp this. In other words, you should live with a kind of trembling

awe before the knowledge of the holiness that's residing within you. I don't know if it's ever happened to you. Aren't there some people, aren't there some relatives that you have? Aren't there some people in your life? I can think of somebody, Kathy knows who I'm thinking of, whenever that person even looks like they might accidentally drop in on you, you say, oh no. I don't want them to see what we're really like. I don't want them to see their internal workings. We're not holy enough for them. But unfortunately, somebody like that has dropped in on you. And he's living within you forever. And there should be a holy awe before the knowledge of this wonderful guest that's within you. you. You have to say, that's my head. I'm the fullness. I'm the body. I'm the pleroma. What I do with the resources he has given me shows the world what he's like. To the degree that you grasp that, you will receive power not to sin. But the best part of it is wherever a head goes, there goes the body. My head has never made a right turn and my body a left turn, thank goodness. My body always goes where the head is. And where's our head? Jesus Christ. He's at the right hand of the And that's the reason why, has Jesus Christ been accepted utterly and completely by the Father? Then so have you. Has Jesus Christ, anything that's true of Jesus is true of you. His glory is true of you. His love is true of you. His greatness is true of you. Because you're his body. Take what he's given you and use it. You're his fullness. but also comfort yourself with what is true of you is true of him. Let's pray. Our Father, we're grateful that you have given us gifts. In the next week or two, we're going to need your help to help us map out and understand better what you would have us as individuals be doing. If we're going to understand what we are as a church, if we're going to understand where we should be going in life, if we're going to make career decisions, if we're going to make decisions of where to live. All these things hinge on a knowledge of the greatness that you've put in us and the particular gifts that you've given us. Help us to see that like your Son, we are called to be ministers. Help us to be like Christ who came not to be ministered unto, but to minister and to give his life a ransom for many. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.