Verse 8 into chapter 5 to verse 10. Each of the four living creatures had six wings and was covered with eyes all around, even under his wings. Day and night they never stopped saying, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty who was and is and is to come. The preachers give glory, honor, and thanks to him who sits on the throne and who lives forever and ever. The 24 elders fall down before him who sits on the throne and worship him who lives forever and ever. They lay their crowns before the throne and say, You are worthy, our Lord and God, to receive glory and honor and power, for you created all things, and by your will they were created and have their being. Then I saw in the right hand of him who sat on the throne a scroll with writing on both sides, and sealed with seven seals. And I saw a mighty angel proclaiming it in a loud voice, Who is worthy to break the seals and open the scroll? But no one in heaven or on earth or under the earth could open the scroll or even look inside it. I wept and wept because no one was found who was worthy to open the scroll or look inside. Then one of the elders said to me, do not weep. See the lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of David has triumphed. He is able to open the scroll and its seven seals. Then I saw a lamb looking as if it had been slain, standing in the center of the throne, encircled by the four living creatures and the elders. he had seven horns and seven eyes which are the seven spirits of God sent out into all the earth he came and took the scroll from the right hand of him who sat on the throne and when he had taken it the four living creatures and the 24 elders fell down before the lamb each one had a harp and they were holding golden bowls full of incense which are the prayers of the saints, and they sang a new song. You are worthy to take the scroll and to open its seals because you were slain, and with your blood you purchased men for God from every tribe and language and people and nation. You have made them to be a kingdom of priests to serve our God, and they will reign on the earth. And this is God's word. We're looking at the book of Revelation for a period of about seven weeks, and you see today we're looking at a vision of heaven that is given to the Apostle John. Now, right away some people might say, how irrelevant to me. Speculation about the nature of heaven doesn't help me practically. And if you do say that, and if you think that, maybe if I had given you time you would have thought that, and you were about to think that, that's a shallow analysis. For me, some of the most intriguing science fiction is the kind of story that shows us that contrary to what we think, our universe is actually an alternate derivative side alley kind of reality. Haven't you ever seen those science fiction stories where it's discovered that actually our universe is growing underneath a leaf in a puddle in a much bigger world? Haven't you seen those kinds of science fiction approaches? The idea being in those stories, what we think is main street of reality is actually a dark kind of side alley. That's what the book of Revelation is telling you right here. it's saying, what if there was an ultimate reality, a kind of bright mountain range of which this world was just, compared to which this world is just a cramped, freezing cave. What if there was an ultimate reality of which this world is just a kind of broken and dim reflection? And if that was true, imagine the impact it would have on you if you saw it. Things that here seem so significant and powerful you would suddenly realize are not. Things that don't look very significant and powerful you would suddenly realize that they are. It would turn your life upside down. To say whether there's a heaven or not is irrelevant to me shows you're just not thinking straight. In this chapter, the Apostle John is allowed to look into heaven. That is what the book of Revelation is trying to show you. Come into main street of reality. Get out of the periphery. Get out of the little back alleys where you are. See what things are really like. Now, who is it that invites John in? If you were reading the beginning of the chapter, chapter 4, verse 1, it tells us the first voice that I heard invited me to come up and open a door for me. And that first voice was the voice of Jesus. And if there's anybody here who says, I don't even know if I believe there's a heaven, look, think of it this way. Jesus invites John in. The historical Jesus is the proof that there's a heaven. There really isn't any other proof. The life of the Jesus Christ who lived here, his inexplicable life, his inexplicable deeds, that's the proof there's a heaven. He says, I'm the one who came down from heaven. heaven. Paul calls him, remember, in 1 Corinthians 15, the man from heaven. And therefore, the way we know there's a heaven is because we know Jesus is who he said he is. There's somebody there saying, well, how do you know that? And that's just, we cannot go over that ground every single week. Sometimes we do, sometimes we don't. Keep your eyes open. Whenever we hold our Discovering Christianity classes, which we hold numerous times during the year, we always go over these basics. How do you know Jesus is who he said he is? What's the evidence for that? But we can't go into that now. Suffice it to say, the only way you know there's a heaven is because of Jesus. And the only way John sees heaven is because Jesus calls him in. And what does he see? Ultimate reality. What he sees is worship. Listen, of course what John sees is overwhelming. Of and see everything about ultimate reality. It's more than he could take in as a living human being and more than he could articulate to us as living human beings. But what he was shown was that the essence of what happens in heaven, the essence of ultimate reality, is worship. This is the Bible's answer to every question, every deep question that's ever been asked. What is the essence of life? Where is history going? Recently, on the op-ed pages, there's been a number of physicists debating on whether or not they can come up with a final theory. Have you read about that? The final theory, the ultimate theory of what holds life together. This is the answer. What is human? What is the essence of life? What holds everything together? Where is history going? What is the axis mundi, the thing that everything in the universe turns on? Worship. If this is true, and we have lots of evidence to believe that it is. And by the way, if you don't believe there's a heaven, if you don't believe there's an ultimate reality, do you have really the courage to admit that? And do you have the courage to live as if there is no right and wrong and there's no show us? I mean, I'm not saying that you have to believe everything that I'm telling you today, but I doubt that many of you who don't believe it want to really face the implications of your skepticism. Many of you are living off your philosophically smuggling into your life all kinds of values you've got no right to, because unless there is an ultimate reality beyond this world, there's no way to talk about truth or right or wrong. What is it that John saw? That worship is the heart of that ultimate reality. And so let's take a look and see what he teaches us here. There's three things we learn about worship. The need for worship, the way to worship, and the focus of worship. The need, the way, the focus. The need, the way, the focus. First, the need. The first thing we see is that everything's worshiping. A lot of this looks a little difficult for us to understand. Don't forget what I said. When it comes to Revelation, if you focus on the trees, you'll be lost like Hansel and Gretel and never find your way home. Look at the forest, not the trees of Revelation. What are the 24 elders? probably the 12 tribes of Israel and the 12 apostles to show that both in the Old and New Testament, all the people of God, probably. What are the four living creatures? Probably they represent everything. You have domesticated animals, you know, in the ox. You have wild animals in the lion. You have humanity in the creature with a face like a man. You have the flying animals. It probably represents everything. There is a universal need for worship, of course there's an important sense in which the way a human being in the image of God worships is different than the way in which the ocean worships. And yet, the Bible says here and elsewhere that to glorify God, to ascribe honor to, to declare the glories of, to submit to the greatness of God is the universal design of everything. Everything needs to worship. In Psalm 19, the psalmist says something which you've heard maybe, and therefore you don't realize the radical nature of the claim. He says, the heavens are telling of the glory of God. Day after day, they pour forth speech. Night after night, they display knowledge. to the ends of the earth their voice goes forth. What is it saying? Here's what it's saying. Look at the beauty of the earth with its canyons and its peaks and its airs and its waters. Look at the beauty of the mountains and the stars and the seashore. Why are they so beautiful, says the psalmist? They're so beautiful because they are doing what they were built to do. They are submitting to and declaring the glory of their creator. They're being exactly what they were created to be, and therefore, they are glorifying God, and that's why they're so beautiful. They're worshiping, in a sense. They're declaring the glory of God. All right. When somebody looks at you, does your beauty take their breath away? Are they astonished at the attractiveness of your character, at the greatness and nobility of your stature? You know why not, says the psalmist? Because you're not doing what the mountains are doing, what the geese flying south are doing. They are being what God created them to be. They are glorifying God. They are worshiping their God. And yet we are not being everything that are not worshiping God with all of our being. We are not submitting to the greatness of our Creator. Everything must worship. Now, the implication of that is this. Therefore, let's talk about human beings here. The implications are this. That means that because you were designed for worship, because worship is a universal need that we see right here in this chapter. It means that everybody will worship something. Everybody will worship something. It's a universal need. Do you recognize worship for what it is? Lots and lots and lots of you don't recognize worship for what it is. Everybody has to worship. Let me give you some examples and just start with the easy ones. Here's the football fan. The football fan all week he studies of his adoration. He reads about it. He studies it, studies the statistics. He talks about it. And then on Sunday, he spends a great deal of time and effort to actually get into the presence of the object of his adoration. And when the object of his adoration is actually presented to his senses, his whole posture changes. He praises them. He shouts. You see, his face is aglow. What is that? That's worship. Tom Wolfe, some years ago, wrote a great article called The Worship of Art. It was in Harper's a number of years ago now, and in it he says that the upper classes today largely sneer at traditional religion, but they have to have a religion. Everybody has to worship something, and so their new religion is art. He says years ago in the great mansions, the lobbies, and the parlors were adorned with crosses, crucifixes, and stars of David. Today, pieces of art. He says in all the great mansions that have been built in New York City in the early part of the century, they all had chapels. Go into the chapels today and you'll see what's there. Beautiful art. The people walk in and you have to be reverent. You meditate. You mustn't talk loud in front of the art. But to use those chapels for prayer would be actually in very bad taste. He says it used to be the rich people used to leave their estates to their churches. Now they leave it to the Metropolitan Museum. He says today to show that you're a person of spirituality, a person of substance, that you're not just a crass materialist, art. What is he talking about? What is it? It's worship. Look at our attitudes towards sex. Malcolm Muggeridge called sex the mysticism of the materialist. Some of us are more refined, some of us are crassly addicted, but the fact is that we are unbelievably obsessed and unbelievably overwhelmed and overpowered by a sight of a sexually attractive object to us. many of you wouldn't want anyone else in the world to know just how much it lays on your heart most of you wouldn't want anyone to know just how much it can obsess you a particular individual or a picture you wouldn't want anyone to know how when you get really upset or really down how you console yourself how you comfort yourself how you get peace through sex what is it's worship relationship. And look at celebrities. You know, the history, the real history of kings and queens is a terrible history. It's a history of tyranny and slavery. And yet any country that still has a king or a queen is absolutely obsessed with the glitz of the royal family. And us countries that don't have any royalty, what we do is we take the super beautiful, we take the super athletic, We take the super rich. We take even the super criminal, and we turn them into kings and queens, and we exalt them, and then we turn them into celebrities. Why? The Bible says it's because we all need to worship something greater than ourselves. We have to. And as a result, because there's a memory trace in our souls, A memory trace of someone on the throne whose power and justice and wisdom and might and glory is like the sun shining in its full strength. Because we have a memory trace of that, we've got to worship something. So we do. We bow down to beautiful bodies or to incredible football teams. Or we bow down to celebrities or we bow down to wonderful music and art. But our spiritual natures, like our physical natures, will be served. You deny them food and they will gobble poison. But eat they will. Do you recognize worship in your life? Do you recognize anything that gives you that meaning? Anything before which you are reverent? Anything that moves you to tears? anything that gets you by the throat. These aren't scientific attitudes. These are not rational attitudes. These are religious attitudes. Now, maybe there's somebody here. Before we leave this point, the first point, there is a universal need for worship. John saw it in heaven. He realizes that we were created for this, and this is the thing that guides our life. It's the center of our lives. Just trying to make that point. I leave it, let me just imagine what several of you are thinking, and that is, look, I do know people who go gaga over sex, and I do know people who go crazy over football teams, and I do know people who are unbelievable in front of art that you can't even tell a joke in an art gallery because what a heathen you are, how dare you do that. I understand that, you say. There are people like that, and it's all right to call it worship. That's an interesting twist. Fascinating. I guess there are people like that. But what I want you to know is I'm a skeptic. I don't worship. I'm a sensible person. You can't tell me that everybody worships. And the answer is, it's possible to do what you're doing. It's possible to pretty much worship nothing except your need for control. That's the hardest thing to realize is really worship, you know. It's pretty possible to worship virtually nothing, but it's bad for you. In Peter Schaeffer's play, came out in the 70s, Equus, which I think I'm pronouncing properly. It's all about a boy who believes that horses are God. And this boy is assigned to a psychiatrist, and the whole play is about the encounter of the psychiatrist with this boy. And the psychiatrist finds that because he worships horses, that he is pulsating with life, that when he gallops, it invigorates him. And as a result, he does not live a cramped, messed up kind of life, but he pulsates with life. He enjoys life to the fullness, to the fullest, you see. His whole life is afire with worship. And he's extremely balanced. He's very confident. He's a very happy person. And the psychiatrist looks at himself and realizes the contrast. He, the psychiatrist, is sane. He, the psychiatrist, has bought in to the rationalistic secularism of the Western knowledge classes, which say you mustn't surrender to anything because there's no immortality. natural. There is nothing higher than yourself. He sees a boy who has surrendered to something greater than himself. That's what worship is, to relinquish control to someone greater than yourself. And he realizes his life is full, and he looks at himself, and he has given that control to no one or nothing. He's been taught there isn't anything worthy of it. And as a result, his life is cramped and at one place he says without worship you shrink it's as brutal as that I shrank my own life I settled for the pallid and the provincial out of my own eternal timidity

well you say I'm a sensible person I know some people go gaga but I don't worship anything, then you're killing your humanity. I was reading an environmentalist who writes for the Independent, which is a British newspaper, and he even, listen, he puts it this way. He says, we need to worship something, but in order to be able to worship, you have to be able to find something outside of yourself better than yourself. Some use God, some use nature. We, he's talking about his environmentalist group, we are falling in love with the environment an extension to and in lieu of having fallen out of love with God. We all, he says, have to worship something. We have to find something outside bigger than ourselves. He says, I'm worshiping nature. I've got to. It gives me mission. It gives me meaning. It gives me reverence. It gives me peace. I've given myself over to something bigger than me, and my life has got meaning, and I'm pulsating with energy. Ah, you say, I don't do that to anything. You're killing yourself. looks at you. God looks at all of us, and he says, you're cowards. You're half-hearted creatures. You don't want to surrender. You don't want to glorify anything. Ah, you're down in the mud playing with your toy trucks and dollies, sex, ambition, and money when infinite joy is to be offered to you. He says, have the guts to surrender to something bigger than you. Don't you see? People, when they first start reading the Bible, they're confused by something. God is continually in the Bible saying, praise me. You know, at first, that looks like the kind of person who's interrupting the conversation and saying, well, but enough about you. Don't you think I'm great? And we say, why is God saying, praise me? Don't you see? He doesn't need your praise. We need his praise. Everything worships. Everything must worship. C.S. Lewis puts it this way. He says, to see what worship really means, we must suppose ourselves in perfect love with God, drunk with, drowned in, dissolved by that delight which far from remaining pet up within flows out from us incessantly. Our joy, no more separable from the praise in which it liberates itself than the brightness Amir receives is separable from the brightness Amir gives. Praise, joy, same thing. Praise something bigger than me, something greater than me, something better than me. If you don't find that, you can't praise. If you don't have praise, there's no joy. If you don't have that joy, there's no humanity. Everything must praise. everything must worship. Secondly, all right, how should we worship? That's the need. But how do we worship? Now, what's interesting, if we had another period of time to look at this passage, it would be interesting to go through and to see all the individual elements of worship. They're all here. It's amazing. You have praise, you have thanksgiving, you even have confession when John weeps because he's not worthy to open the scroll. You've got all kinds of worship. Not only that, you have all the means. When they fall down to praise God, they have their harps. Biblically, no music, you're not worshiping. Because I think that worship has got to be from the whole being. And see, music is both analytical. You have to have skill. You've got to have structure. There's a rhythm. There's a beat. It's emotional. The whole being. There must be music. We also see here the bowls, the vials of the prayers for the saints. We also see here an exposition of truth. You notice the first song, thou art worthy for thou hast created. Later, thou art worthy for thou was slain. Do you see what's going on here? Worship is not simply sentiment. It's not just emotion. Motion, worship keys off the exposition of truth. It ignites out of truth. It launches out of truth. It explodes off of truth. Worship is logic on fire. You are worthy. You have because, for, see. So you have the exposition of truth. You have music. You have praise. You have confession. You have thanksgiving. You have prayers. You have responsive readings. You have everything. But there's a way under all the ways that is clearly the heart, the definition of what it means to worship. What is that way? It's all in the word worthy. Continually it comes up. Worthy are thou because you created. Then in the beginning of chapter 5, who is worthy to open the scroll? And then lastly, thou art worthy because thou was slain. What's this word worthy mean? It's very important. The English word worship comes from this word. I mention this again and again when we start our services. The English word worship comes from the word, the old English, worth-ship. Worship means to ascribe worth. and therefore worship here is being defined almost in economic terms. If you want a perfect illustration of what the Bible means by worship, you can go to Matthew 13, a little tiny parable. Let me take you there just for a sec. Very small, like two verses. Don't anybody try to turn to it. It says in Matthew 13, the kingdom of God is like a field. And when a man found hidden treasure in that field, with joy, he went out and sold everything he had and bought that field. There it is. This is the metaphor. for. The way the Bible puts it is, imagine a man living in his house, and right next door is a vacant lot that's been for sale for a long time. He sees it every day. He sees it several times a day. He doesn't even see it. It's there. He has no idea what's there. He doesn't think of it as a valuable thing at all. He walks by it every day. He sees it. It's for sale. Too much. Much too much. $80,000 for that lot. Why, that's everything I own. $80,000, that's all I'm worth, he says. That would be silly to buy a lot like that. And then one day, a friend of his comes and shows him evidence that there's buried treasure in the lot. Well, the first response of the man is to laugh. He's dubious. But then the friend shows him some more evidence, and he's surprised. the friend shows him some more evidence and over a period of time now this is a rational process now remember this through a rational process he begins to find his mind being changed he says this is improbable first he thought it's impossible then he thinks it's improbable now he begins to say it's possible and the more he looks at it the more his mind is being changed he's moving through a rational process then suddenly

he comes to where he says, I've got to try this. And in the middle of the night, he goes out with his shovel, and he digs in the place where it's supposed to be, and he comes to a chest, and he opens it up, and he sees the treasure. And at that point, something new is happening. Up to now, he had heard the number. Now he sees it. He sees the jewelry. He sees the coins. He sees the bills. and the magnitude of the millions of dollars in front of him sinks in. And what does the parable say? With joy he goes and suddenly, $80,000? What's that? Who cares? Sell everything I have? He comes back, honey, we're selling everything we have. Why? We're buying the next, we're buying the vacant lot. And his wife says, what in the world has gotten into you? And what does he say? There's a rational process that leads up to a personal experience. And when I saw the worth of that field, when I realized what was in it, now the analogy falls short, but don't you see what's going on? His whole life has been changed. It's sunk down. He's changing his future. Things that he thought he couldn't afford, now he can afford easily. That is what worship is. You tell me you believe in God. Look in here and you will see what happens. When the people in heaven say, thou art worthy, they are letting the richness, the infinite value, the infinite worth of God sink in. They are doing it continually. And you know why? Because it always leads to two effects. And the two effects are right here. And they show whether you're worshiping or not. You can say, I went to worship. I added up the worth of God. I let it dawn on me. I let it sink in. Well, there's always one way to find out, two ways to find out. The first thing they do is they cast their crowns before him. That's the first sign that you know you've been worshiping. They cast their crowns. Now, this is inescapable. Don't be scared. This means if you have worshiped, if you've actually seen the worth of God, God, you give him anything. You give him everything. You give up everything. You relinquish control of your life. He is preeminent. He is in charge of everything. Nothing else matters but him. You cast your crowns. You lose control. Somebody says, that's what I was afraid you were going to say. That's what I don't like. That's why I can't get gaga over religion. Don't you remember? Remember, logic, you cannot be human without worship, but you cannot worship without losing control. You always lose the control to anything you worship, can't you see that? What is it that gives your life meaning? What is it that you have to have to be happy? What is it that if it was gone from your life, you wouldn't know how you'd go on? that's got the crown of your life don't you see you don't control your own life anything that is the most important thing to you anything that you worship has the crown

the only people who haven't given the crown to somebody else the people who are holding on to their own crowns you're worshipping control

and in a sense you're even you're out of control you always lose control to the one you worship If you live for power, power has got you under its control. If you live for approval, approval has got you under control. If you live for control, control has got you under control. But you don't belong to yourself. And the way you know you've been worshiping the Lord God is He becomes preeminent in your life, and there's a relinquishment that goes on. You want to have a life of passion? You give up. You relinquish control. Let's be real specific. It means God becomes the most important priority in the way you handle your money. Most important priority in the way that you conduct your career, in the way that you carry out your relationships, in the way in which you use your tongue, in the way in which you form your opinions. Has that happened to you? Can you see this radical reorientation of your life when the man found the hidden treasure and he realized he had something infinitely more valuable imagined, it changes everything. Everything. You don't dabble in worship. People that come to worship twice a year aren't. That couldn't be. But then there's a second sign of real worship. The first sign that you really have ascribed worth, that you really have added up, you've really let the value sink in is that you cast your crowns before him. The second one is you feel like a priest and a king. You see, worthy art thou because you were slain and because with your blood you purchased men for God and you have made them to be a kingdom of priests to serve our God and they shall reign on the earth. Worship of the Lord God, the true God, always inevitably makes you feel as glorious as he is. The guy who finds the money in the field, the more he ascribes worth to the money, the more he feels great himself. Here's how you know that you're worshiping the real God and the true God. God. He makes you feel as royal and as powerful as a king. It makes you feel as pure and as acceptable as a priest. But that leads us to our last point and the briefest of the points. What does it mean to worship, we just said? It means to so fill your heart, to so let the value of God, the worth of God sink in that you respond in a wholehearted reorientation of your life. Seeing what he's worth and giving him what he's worth, that's worship. Are you? Do you? Has there been that relinquishment? Has there been that radically new self-image? Is there a confidence about you? Is there a sense of royalty about you? Is there a sense of greatness about you? You see, this is the last point. The need for worship, secondly, the way of worship, but thirdly, the focus. It's not enough to worship anything. You've got to worship the right thing. Some people will say, oh, it doesn't matter what you believe as long as you're sincere. It doesn't matter what your religion is as long as you worship it with all your might. Oh, that makes great sense. Let's put it another way. It doesn't matter what you ingest as long as it tastes good to you. you. If you like it, if you want it, if it tastes good to you, it can't hurt you. Why don't you come right out when you say, it doesn't matter what you believe as long as you're sincere, why don't you come right out and say what you mean? No religion is real. No religion is true. I mean, everybody knows that you can't change reality by how you believe. have the courage of your convictions admit it if it doesn't matter what you believe it doesn't matter what you worship just so you worship with all your might come right out and say it there is no reality above what you can taste, touch, hear, see and smell which means there's no right and wrong it means there's no ultimate right and wrong there's no spiritual ultimate reality beyond what's here have the courage to live with that have the courage to admit the implications of that. The Bible won't, because the Bible doesn't say that. The Bible says you have to worship the one who's on the throne and the Lamb. There's only one who can open the scroll. The scroll is a legal document. It's written on one side and the other side, and it's kept closed with seals. And you see, it's a will, and no one is worthy to open it. You see, that would be like a wealthy woman leaving all of her money, but she says, the only one who can execute my will should have achieved this and this and this. And the family gathers and realizes that none of us are authorized to execute the will, and so the power and the riches of that woman will never pass to us. And so they all weep. And that's what's going on there in heaven for a moment in front of the Apostle John. Who is worthy to receive the power and the riches of God? And at first thought, everybody says, well, no one. Who's worthy? No one's worthy. There's only two rules of holiness, really, in the Christian religion. The two great commandments. reasonable love god with all your heart soul strength and mind why because he gave you all your heart soul strength and mind it's perfectly reasonable he gives you everything you should give him everything but nobody ever has and the second rule is also perfectly reasonable it's the golden rule love your neighbor as yourself do unto others as you would have them do unto you everybody knows that everybody knows that deepens their own conscience and yet no one in the history of the world has ever done it. No one is worthy to execute the will of the Father. Oh, yes, there is one. John is about to be upset. He's about to weep, and someone says, the lion of the tribe of Judah can do it. But when he turns to look for a lion, he sees a lamb with his throat cut. And it begins to dawn on him what dawned on John the Baptist years ago. Behold the Lamb of God. See, years ago in Egypt, when God sent out a plague to destroy the wicked people, to kill the firstborn in every family, if you killed a lamb, if a family killed the lamb and put the blood of the lamb over the door lintels, the wrath passed by. Years later, John the Baptist saw Jesus walking, and suddenly all the meaning of that Old Testament history

in front of him. He realized it and he says, I get it. Behold Jesus Christ, the Lamb of God, not a Lamb of God. Our children weren't saved because of some woolly quadrupeds those centuries ago. Our children were saved because God gave his firstborn son to die for us, to make atonement for, to pay the penalty for, to take the punishment we deserve for our unworthiness. And therefore, he alone is worthy to be worshipped. Do you know what it really means to worship God truly? By worshipping the one who's on the throne and the Lamb. To do what John the Baptist said, behold the Lamb of God. That's different than just believing Jesus died for you. To behold the Lamb. Behold. It means to take him into your heart as slain. it means to remind yourself I am loved I am loved look at what he did for me this is an infallible love nothing could possibly ever get rid of it will handle everything it took the omnipotent wrath of God on its neck and it didn't break he loves me enough to die for me so how in the world can I think that I can outlive his love many of you

don't take criticism well, don't have much confidence. Many of you are crushed so easily. You're up and down. You live as if nobody loves you. That's because you're not beholding the Lamb of God. Look carefully. It's not worshiping anything, but it's worshiping Jesus Christ as slain for you melt you down. We'll get rid of all the problems and you will be as beautiful as the snow on the sun-capped peak if you can. Worship the way the geese worship and worship the way the mountains worship. Give yourself to him like this. They tell you're made of earth, but you're made of heaven too. Some of you think the reason I'm so unsatisfied, I must be neurotic. I must need help. Nothing satisfies me. No, your dissatisfaction is a sign of the greatness of the soul, the sign of what a magnificent scale you were built upon. You desire transcendence, and nothing else will satisfy you. You want intimacy with the infinite. in it. Is this your song? Worthy is the Lamb. When you hear it, do you sense that it struck the deepest chord in your heart? Like Annie Dillard, do you say, I never knew I was a bell till one day something picked me up and rung me? Does this ring you? This is the way you know you're a Christian. And if it doesn't, if it's not your song, I tell you this. Go find out what these words mean. Don't stop till you do. Worthy is the lamb who was slain to receive glory and honor and blessing and praise. Let's pray. Father, we ask that you would grant now that we would truly understand what worship is and what it means to sing the same songs that they sing in heaven. give us the ability to know the relinquishment and the royal joy of those who bow down with their whole beings and say, worthy is the one who sits on the throne and the lamb. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
