The reading tonight is from Exodus chapter 33, verses 1 through 6, and verses 15 through 23. Then chapter 34, verses 5 through 8. Then the Lord said to Moses, Leave this place, you and the people you brought up out of Egypt, and go up to the land I promised on oath to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, saying, I will give it to your descendants. I will send an angel before you and drive out the Canaanites, Amorites, Hittites, Perizzites, Hivites, and Jebusites. Go up to the land flowing with milk and honey. But I will not go with you, because you are a stiff-necked people, and I might destroy you on the way. When the people heard these distressing words, they began to mourn, and no one put on any ornaments. For the Lord had said to Moses, Tell the Israelites, you are a stiff-necked people. If I were to go with you even for a moment, I might destroy you. Now take off your ornaments, and I will decide what to do with you. So the Israelites stripped off their ornaments at Mount Horeb. Then Moses said to him, If your presence does not go with us, do not send us up from here. How will anyone know that you are pleased with me and with your people unless you go with us? What else will distinguish me and your people from all the other people on the face of the earth? And the Lord said to Moses, I will do the very thing you have asked, because I am pleased with you, and I know you by name. Then Moses said, Now show me your glory. And the Lord said, I will cause all my goodness to pass in front of you, and I will proclaim my name, the Lord, in your presence. I will have mercy on whom I will have mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I will have compassion. But, he said, You cannot see my face, for no one may see me and live. Then the Lord said, There is a place near me where you may stand on a rock. When my glory passes by, I will put you in a cleft in the rock and cover you with my hand until I have passed by. Then I will remove my hand, and you will see my back, but my face must not be seen. Then the Lord came down in the cloud and stood there with him and proclaimed his name, the Lord. And he passed in front of Moses, proclaiming, The Lord, the Lord, the compassionate and gracious God, slow to anger, abounding in love and faithfulness, maintaining love to thousands, and forgiving wickedness, rebellion, and sin. Yet he does not leave the guilty unpunished. He punishes the children and their children for the sin of the fathers to the third and fourth generation. Moses bowed to the ground at once and worshiped. This is God's word. I read a survey not too long ago of people who had left churches and left rejected church. And they were asked, under what circumstances would you come back to a church or attend a church again? And the answer, the number one answer, I'm sure there were many answers, but the number one answer was, If I could find a church that would help me know how to experience God in a deep and profound way, I would go to a church that would help me know how to experience God in a deep and profound way. And there's no better text, there's no more relevant text to that kind of concern than this one. This text is about the glory of God, which is a very, very well-known but very slippery word. What in the world does that mean? Let's notice here that the text tells us about needing his glory, seeing his glory, and finding his glory. Needing his glory. Seeing his glory. And finding his glory. Okay? And it'll help us understand what this whole term, glory of God, means. First of all, this text teaches us about our needing his glory. Right before chapter 33, 32, chapter 32 was the famous incident of the golden calf. When Moses was up in the mountain, the people of Israel turned back to the gods of Egypt. They made a golden calf. And that was their way of trying to get back in touch with the gods of Egypt. Of course, when Moses comes down the mountain and finds it, finds the situation, God says they deserve to be destroyed. Moses intercedes for them. God forgives them. It's a well-known incident. But then here in the beginning of chapter 33, God makes a fascinating offer. He says, and I'm going to paraphrase what he actually says here in verses 1 to 32. He says, this intimate relationship is not going to work. This intimate relationship between me and you is not going to work. You're just going to keep on trampling on it. So here's the deal. I will send an angel, not the angel of the presence. I will send an angel. I will put you in your land. I will make you economically, politically, and militarily successful. But my presence will not go with you. I will not go with you. And the word presence all through this passage is the Hebrew word panim. My face will not go with you. Now, I'm a little tongue-in-cheek when I say this, but it's only a little. God offers to Israel the very religion that the average American most wants. Look it. You can have peace and prosperity. You can have success. You can have military political power. You can have political economic success. But you won't have to have a tabernacle. You won't have to have a temple because my presence will not go with you. You won't have all the maintenance of confessing and sacrifices and offerings and all that sort of thing. I'll give you all of the benefits of the existence of God and none of the maintenance costs. And Moses will have none of it. And Moses in verse 15 says an astounding thing. He says, If your presence does not go with us, if your face does not go with us, don't even send us up from here. And what does that mean? You know what the alternative is? When he says, Don't even send us unless you go with us, that means they would just dwindle and die in the desert. And so here's what Moses is saying. If we don't have your glory, if we don't have your face, if we don't have your presence, it would be better just to die. Or put another way, human life is meaningless without the glory presence of God. Now when the average person sees this and sees God saying, My presence will not go with you, the average reader says, Wait a minute, wait a minute, I thought God was everywhere. Isn't God omnipresent? And of course the Bible certainly teaches that, that God is everywhere present. Psalm 139 talks about how no matter where you go, there is God. God is everywhere. And when people go out on a lake or they go up on the top of a mountain, it is normal for human beings to sense the presence of God. When you looked at that vista, you just knew there was something more. That there was someone out there, there was someone up there, and so on. And that's right, that's the presence of God. But here's what Moses is saying, and it's radical. Moses is saying there is a difference between believing in God in general and experiencing the omnipresence of God, his everywhere presence, and knowing God personally and experiencing his glory presence, his face. And it's all the difference in the world. He says if you don't have the latter, life is not worth living. Now, when Moses says life is not worth living without the glory presence, we'll get into what that means, but the glory presence of God, he is actually raising an incredibly important philosophical question. He's actually saying, this is what I'm for, this is what human life is for, to see and praise the glory of God. And that is a big question. Why did God create us? If God created us, why did he create us? And the answer of the Bible is to glorify God. That's what we're built for. We were built to see the glory of God and praise the glory of God. Now, when the average person hears that, they say, that doesn't sit well. Why would we do that? Why would God need to create a universe of beings just to glorify him? Why does he need that? Here's a letter from a woman to a pastor. She said, The question that has always been on my mind is why did God create us? I remember discussing this with my uncle, and he told me, his pastor told him, God created us to glorify him. But why would the supreme omnipotent Lord need us feeble humans to glorify him? It seems so egotistical. Now, that's a natural and good question. It's a common question. But the question forgets something. If God were unipersonal, then it's true that the first moment that God would have created any other being would have been the first moment that God would have known love, relationship, joy. But the Bible, the Christian understanding of God is that God is tripersonal, that God is a trinity, that there's one God, but within one God there's three persons. And what were those three persons, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, doing from all eternity? Here's what they were doing. We get an insight into this incredible subject, so lofty that I'm getting a nosebleed, philosophically that is, even thinking about it with you. But in John chapter 17, in Jesus' great high priestly prayer to his father, he says this, Father, glorify me in your presence with the glory I had with you before the world began. Father, I want those you have given me to be with me where I am and to see my glory, the glory you have given me because you loved me before the foundation of the world. Now, in that incredible statement, we learn something. As lofty as this is, we know what he's talking about because we're made in the image of God. There is nothing more incredible and wonderful than to be in love with someone and simply to affirm each other's gifts and strengths and beauty, just enjoy each other, just build each other up, just be ravished with each other. But what we have known in drops, the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit has known, in oceans, infinite oceans, from all eternity, they've been glorifying each other, that is, which is what you do when you're in love, building each other up, doting on each other, enjoying each other, appreciating each other, loving each other, rejoicing in one another. They've been doing it from all eternity, and there is nothing better. You know that. Except that we've only had drops and they've had the ocean. But if it's true, see, this is the answer to the big philosophical question. If it's true that God is a trinity, then when he created us, he wouldn't have created us because he needed us to glorify him, right? Couldn't be. He already had that. Well, then why would he have done it? Well, Jesus actually says so. Father, I want them, my disciples, to see my glory, the glory you gave me from the foundation of the world because you loved me. The only reason God could have created you and me is not because he needed glory, but to share it. He didn't need this incredible circle of rejoicing in and loving in and glorifying in one another. He already had it. So why would he have created us? Only because he wants to make us capable of reflecting his glory, capable of praising his glory, capable of also giving and reflecting love and joy and glory. He made us capable of entering into the cosmic joy of the Godhead. That's the answer. And Moses doesn't know all this stuff. He doesn't know the high priesthood prayer of Jesus. He doesn't understand the Trinity or the tri-personality. He doesn't understand, but he does know this intuitively, that the glory of God was what he was made for. That's the reason why he says, if you don't go up with us, if I don't have the presence of God, the glory of God, life is not worth living. He knew he was made for that. Put it this way. He knew that in every set of outstretched arms, as wonderful as that is, in every mountain that beckons to you, climb me. In every art, every object of art that hits you, in every landscape that creates such incredible longing in you, what you're really looking for is this. Moses knew that what you're looking for in all the beauties, all the loves, all the pleasures, all the joys you've ever known or sought, you've been looking for this. This is the fulfillment of all of them. Psalm 16, David says, In thy face is fullness of joy, in thy right hand are pleasures forevermore. All pleasures are there. Moses says, this is what I was built for. This is what I need. This is what I was made for. Now, do you know it? If you don't believe what I'm telling you or if you don't understand what I'm telling you, I beg you to keep exploring until you do. Otherwise, you're going to spend all of your life chasing a will-o'-the-wisps. This is it. You need His glory, number one. Number two, all right, what does it mean then to see, to grasp, or experience His glory? What does that mean? And we've got to break this down because I don't want you to go out of here without at least some kind of handle on this. It's just easy. This is such a slippery thing. It sounds really great. And then you walk out saying, but what the heck is that? And I would like you to consider, if you want to get a kind of handle on the idea of seeing and experiencing and grasping the glory of God, let us look at the aspects and the levels of it. The aspects and the levels. First of all, let me give you four aspects that are inherent in the two words that are used here to talk about this. First of all, the two words are, Moses says, I want to see Your glory, and God says, you cannot see My face. So they're synonyms. Glory is the Hebrew word kavod. Face is the Hebrew word kavod. And then there's the Hebrew word panim. And in these words, if you just dig down a little bit into what they mean, you see four aspects of what it means to experience the glory of God, to see God as a glorious God, to grasp, see, experience the glory of God. First, four aspects. First, kavod means wait. And here's what I think this first means. You have moved from just experiencing the everywhere presence of God into beginning to grasp the glory of God. You're beginning to see God as a glorious God. When you begin to realize that there's a reality to Him that you have to bow to, that you have to discover, you don't construct. The average person in New York says, I like to think of God like this. I can't believe in a God like this. I can't, I don't want a God like this. I think I like a God like this. By definition, that's not a glorious God. Whatever that is, it's not glorious, because the word glory has to do with solidity, weight. And you've begun to experience that God is a glorious God when you begin to develop a certain intellectual awe. You begin to say, this God is above my likes and dislikes. This God has a being that I do not construct, but I can only submit to. This is a God, it doesn't matter what I think of this God. It only matters what this God thinks of me. And when that begins to dawn on you, you have begun to move away from just experiencing God in His everywhere presence to experiencing God as a glorious God. So first of all, He becomes intellectually real to you, and you begin to submit to that. You say, I cannot just decide who this God is. I have to discover who this God reveals Himself to be. Secondly, kavod doesn't just mean weight. It also means substance or matter. And the second way you know that you've begun to experience the glory of God is He comes to matter more than anything else. See, it's possible to experience God in His everywhere presence. And yet God be kind of peripheral. Sometimes when things get worse in your life, you show up in church or you pray more, and God kind of becomes more important to you, and then you get busy, and then everything goes well, and then He gets further out in the periphery. But when you've begun to experience God as a glorious God, when you've begun to experience the glory of God, you begin to have what I call a feeling of either-or-ness. You start to think like this. Either there is no God, and my life is a tale told by an idiot full of sound and fury signifying nothing, or there is a God, and if there is a God, nothing else matters but my relationship to Him. Everything else is negotiable. Everything else has to be judged by whether it hinders or enhances my relationship with God, because God is all that really matters. God is the only thing that lasts. And my relationship with God is the only thing that lasts. And what God does in me, everything else is going to burn up. Everything else is going to disintegrate. And that dawns on you. Then you're beginning to sense God as a God of glory. You're beginning to experience, grasp, see God as glorious. Thirdly, I'll summarize the four in a minute. The third aspect of experiencing or seeing, grasping the glory of God, let's look at the word face. Face means relationship. You know, if you're going to go up to a friend to talk with them, communicate with them, you know, relate to them, you don't look at their knee. You don't look at their ankle. You don't look at their elbow. You go to their face. Why? Because that's the gate. It's the relational gate into them. And when the whole idea behind experiencing the face of God, see, is that you sense that he's actually speaking to you. Let me put it like this. Psalm 19 actually says that the heavens' nature tells you about God, tells you about the greatness of God. But it does so in wordless speech. Now, what in the world is wordless speech? Well, the point is this. When you experience the omnipresence of God, you sense that he's there, or you sense someone is there, you sense something is there. There's no words. There's no content. It's vague. It's a kind of general sense, feeling of spirituality, which Moses says is not going to cut it for him. But here's how you know you've begun to sense God's glory. You've begun to see the face of God. You get a sense that there's content. When you read the Bible, you sense he's speaking to you. Because the Bible stops being words, and it begins to... In other words, you read about the mercy of God. And maybe in the past, you believed in the mercy of God, or you believed God was merciful. But when you've begun to experience the glory of God, his mercy becomes weighty. His mercy bears on your heart. You feel it. You get a sense on the heart that there's a kind of spiritual reality to these things, and you sense that you're speaking to him. And that he's hearing you, and that he's speaking to you through the Word, through the Scripture. And that's the third aspect of what it means to actually begin to move from just experiencing God in general, in his omnipresence, and experiencing God's glory. And last of all, the fourth aspect of experiencing the glory of God is experiencing his beauty. See, the word face, fourthly, has to do with beauty. When you talk about someone being beautiful, almost always we're talking about the person's face, among other things. But when you say, that person's beautiful, he or she is beautiful, almost certainly it usually has to do with face. And therefore, when Moses says, I want to see your glory, when Moses says, I want to experience your glory, what he means is, I want to see your beauty. Now what does that mean? Well, when you have a general belief in God, you go to God for things. You go to God for mercy, or for help, or for strength, or for an answer to prayer, or you go to God for power, you go to God for things. But when you've begun to experience the glory of God, you begin to find that thinking about who he is and what he does becomes an end in itself, it becomes satisfying in itself. Now listen, why do you pray? Is your prayer life completely a matter of asking for things? For example, what if you would come to the top of a bluff and you look down and there's this incredible vista of the ocean, as far as you can see, breaking waves on the sea, it's beautiful. You sit down and you just, you know, put your fists on your chin and you just look at it and you're just there for an hour or two hours, you can't get enough of it. Why are you there? Are you hoping somebody will walk along and see you sitting up there and think, what a contemplative person you are? I mean, in other words, what is your, what is their goal for doing this? I mean, what are you trying to accomplish? You say, I'm not trying to accomplish anything, it's a satisfying in itself, it fills me up. Is that what prayer is like for you? When it is, you've begun to approach the glory presence of God. When praise and adoration, because, fills you, because to glorify means to enjoy him. C.S. Lewis in his famous passage in Reflection on the Psalms, he says this, all his life he thought, how silly for God to ask us to glorify him. What an egotistical thing that is. What's the matter with him? And he says, I never noticed that all enjoyments spontaneously overflow into praise. People spontaneously praise whatever they value and they urge others to join in. Isn't that great, we say. Wasn't it glorious? Come and listen. Don't you think that's magnificent? Indeed, we can't help but praise the things we enjoy because praise not merely expresses but completes the enjoyment. It is its appointed consummation. Listen, because praise does not merely express but completes the enjoyment, it is its appointed consummation. Our expressions of praise are inadequate but if one could really and fully praise things to perfection, indeed our delight would attain perfect development. Therefore, the Scottish catechism says a man's chief end is to glorify God and enjoy him forever, but we will know in heaven that these are the same thing. To fully enjoy is to glorify. In commanding us to glorify him, God is inviting us to enjoy him. Now, four aspects. You've moved from just having a general experience of the omnipresence of God, the everywhere presence of God. You've begun to grasp and see and experience the glory of God. When intellectually you begin to submit to who he is rather than try to create the one you want. When volitionally he becomes the most important priority in your life and nothing else matters more than him. When spiritually you actually sense him speaking to you and you sense a reality of the things that he says in the word of God coming onto your heart. And last of all, when you begin to appreciate him for who he is in himself. When you begin to not go to him for things, but go to him for him. Instead of saying, oh Lord, why don't you give me outstretched arms, you find those outstretched, the thing you're looking for in the outstretched arms, in him. Instead of saying, oh Lord, help me to climb this mountain and achieve this thing, you find that achievement in him. And there's levels of this. The last thing I want to say under this second point, this heading, is you mustn't believe that seeing the glory of God is an all or nothing thing. Look, in chapter 24, if you were here last week, in chapter 24, the elders went up and saw the glory of God, but they saw his feet. Remember that? He saw his feet. Here, Moses asked to see his face, but God says, no, I'll just show you my back. Okay, so last week they got the feet, this week they're asking for the face, but instead he just gets the back. What does this mean? I don't know. I just act like I know everything, but I don't know everything. However, I know one thing about this. It means at least this, that there are degrees to this. There are degrees to experiencing the intellectual reality, the priority, the sense on the heart, the beauty. There is degrees. Of course, when we actually see him fully, face to face, completely apprehending his beauty, we are going to be completely transformed. In fact, 1 John 3, 1 says, Beloved, we are children of God, and what we will be has not been made known, but we know that when he appears, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. Just seeing him is going to transform us, but listen to this line. Everyone who has this hope purifies himself as he is pure. Do you know what that means? That final experience of seeing the glory of God, which is the ultimate thing you were built for, is such a powerful experience that to presently even hope for it, to even want it, to even yearn for it, will purify you now to some degree. Everyone who hopes in this purifies himself, present tense, as he is pure. Isn't that incredible? So on the one end, it's unbelievable and astounding what it's going to be like to see the glory of God, but you can, through faith, through the Holy Spirit, not an audible voice, not a visible presence, you know, without visible brightness, but you can some degree experience these aspects now, and so you must seek it. So the fourth, the last thing is, how do you seek it? How do you seek it? How do we find the glory of God? Or maybe I should say, where do we find the glory of God? And there's four things. We'll be quick, but there's four things. Number one, I mean, there's more than four things, I'm sure, but there's only four things in this text, okay? You know, no one text of the Bible will tell you everything you need about any subject. You need the whole Bible, but here's the four things in the text. Number one, your motive. Why do you and I want this? I mean, are you sitting here listening and saying, oh my word, this is what I want? Why? Catch yourself. As modern Western people in America, here's the main reason we want it. We want it because it sounds like it feels good. It feels really good. It sounds like this is really going to feel good. I want to know all about it. Is that what Moses says? Does he say in verse 15, if your presence does not go with us, do not send us up from here because I want to feel good. No. Look at his motive. Now, actually, you have to think about it because at first look, it looks snobby. He says, how else, how else will this, what else will distinguish me and your people from all the other people on the face of the earth? Now, on the surface, it looks snobby, right? But you're, no. If you were here last week, the word distinguish, distinct, is the word for holy. I think if you were here last week, you remember that we said the word holy originally means to be different, to be utterly different. To be a holy nation meant that you were going to be, we talked about this last week, God was calling them to be a holy nation, to be a community of such a great number, such love and such peace and such justice and such beauty that everybody in the world would say, there's no way to account for that except God. In other words, here's what Moses is saying. I want your glory in my life and I want your glory in the life of the community because I want you so remarkably, unmistakably present in our life that people will see your glory radiated through us. I want that. I don't want the people in the world who don't believe in you, I don't want to argue them into belief. I don't want to force them into belief. I want to attract them into belief. I want them to be attracted. I want your glory in my life. Otherwise, how will the world know who you are? I want to be distinct. I want to be different so the world will know who you are. Ah, motive. The odd thing about experiencing the glory of God, the odd thing, it's like so many other things in the Bible. It's sort of like, there's a place where C.S. Lewis says, aim for heaven and you'll get earth thrown in. Aim for earth and you'll get neither. Aim for godliness and you'll get happiness. Aim for happiness and you'll get neither. So first of all, your motive, number one. Number two, second of all, your gold. Your gold, your money. The second thing that helps you find the glory of God is your money. Notice in the very beginning of the passage, three times in verses four, five, and six, it talks about stripping off the ornaments. What that means is the gold of their earrings, of their bracelets, had already been put into the golden calf. And God had asked that it be put into the tabernacle. If you go through the rules of how to build the tabernacle, God had wanted almost everything in the tabernacle gold-plated. It's incredible. Which means, and this is what the text is trying to say, the only way they're going to get the glory of God back is if they deal with their wealth. You put your wealth into the things that you serve. Your wealth is going to be, the way you spend your money shows you your real gods, or put it another way, the way you use your wealth shows you what you look to for, to matter, for significance and security besides God in the world. In other words, one of the things that blocks us getting the glory of God in our lives is we look to other things for glory. That means we look to other things besides God to make us feel like we matter. And you see, if we're looking to other things besides God, for glory, we're not going to go and find the glory of God. And the fastest way for you to find out what those things are is look how you spend your money. Example. I have never had a problem spending money on books. It's the easiest thing in the world. I mean, no matter how little money we had, I could spend money on books. Why? Well, unfortunately, I came to realize this. When somebody comes along and says to me, you read, you read more than anybody I know. I can't believe all the books you quote. You just read so much. I can't believe how much you read. On the outside I say, thank you very much. But on the inside I say, I know. And I read a lot more than you. And I am erudite, and I even know what it means. And I'm an intellectual. I'm very smart. I read. I'm very well read. I'm very, very literate. What am I doing? Do you listen to your heart, really? The reason why it's so incredibly easy for me to spend money on books, it always has been, is because it's a golden calf. See, your money shows you where you look for significant insecurity, what you look to besides God to know that you matter. And the only way, one of the main ways to really help yourself spiritually focus on God, is to be so radically generous with your money, giving it away to the poor, giving it away to the ministry, giving it away to the church, giving it away in the proportions that the book of Exodus says you ought to give your money away, 10% at least. If you were committed to giving away 10%, you would immediately begin to see the things you look to besides God for glory. And what's interesting is, by forcing yourself to do radical giving, it not only, radical giving and generosity is not only an expression of the belief that God alone is your source of significance and security, but it's not just an expression of that belief, it strengthens the belief. When I do it, it helps my heart believe it. It's not just an expression of my heart's belief, it actually solidifies my heart's belief. So watch what you're doing with your gold. Thirdly, so we said the motive, the gold, thirdly the prayer. Look at Moses' prayer. Show me your glory. What do you pray for? Listen, there's nothing wrong with praying for all of your ailments. There's nothing wrong with praying for your friends. There's nothing wrong with all those things. But here's what Moses prays. Show me your glory. Show my community, my church, as it were, your glory, so that we can show the world your glory. Do this 40 days in a row. Lord, show me your glory. Show my church your glory, so that the city can see your glory. Pray that all the time. Pray that over and over and over. Lastly, the fourth thing you need in order to see the glory of God is the gospel itself. What's interesting here is, Moses asked for the glory, and God says, alright, I'll give you, I'll show you all my goodness. You see that? Show me your glory, verse 18, and the Lord says, I will show you all my goodness. So in God's mind, to see all of his goodness is to see his glory. And then, at the moment of the revelation, instead of Moses, it doesn't say Moses actually saw a brightness, does it? What it says is, Moses heard a declaration. And the word that this is the essence of the glory of God is chapter 34, verses 6 and 7, where he says, okay, here's the essence. This is the essence of God's glory. I am compassionate and gracious, forgiving, yet, I will never leave the guilty unpunished. Now listen carefully. Here's what God says. You want to see my glory? This is the essence of my glory. I'm absolutely forgiving, and I'm absolutely punishing. I want no one to perish, and I demand that everybody be punished. That's all my goodness. And when you say that, you say, this is ridiculous. This is a contradiction. And here's why it's a contradiction, because God is showing you all of his goodness. Think about it. Why could God not let anyone perish? Because of his goodness, his loving goodness. He's showing you all of his goodness. He's too lovingly good to let anybody perish. But, why can he let no one off? Why can he let no one go unpunished? Because he's too good in the sense of justice. You know, it's not a judge who winks at someone who's guilty and lets them go off. That's a bad judge, not a good judge, and God is a good judge. So, why can't God let anybody off? Because he's so good. But why doesn't God want anybody to perish? Because he's so good. And so, now somebody says, well, that's impossible. He might be totally good in the sense of his justice, but then he won't be able to be totally good in the sense of his love. Or he might be totally good in the sense of his love, but then he wouldn't be able to be totally good in the sense of his justice. But he can't be all good. He can't be totally good. Across the board, God says, that's my glory. That's the essence of my glory. Well, how do we solve this? Simple answer. Profound answer. Jesus Christ came. John chapter 114 says, the Word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory. In Jesus Christ, we get the front. Moses only got the back. Why? When Jesus Christ came to earth, we know what he's been doing all of his life, all of his eternity. He'd been getting glory from God. He'd been seeing the face of God. But on the cross, when he said, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Let's just notice two things. Number one, he lost the face of God. And number two, for the first time in the history of the universe, he was ignored. He was treated as insignificant. He wasn't glorified. He wasn't made over. He wasn't adored. He wasn't, you see, he was made, why? Why? He was cosmically ignored, which is, by the way, what hell is. I mean, you all know just how incredibly awful it is to come to some meeting or something like that and be utterly ignored. Nothing compared to this. Why was he, why was he cosmically ignored so that you can matter to God? Why did he lose the face so that we could have it? And this is the point. Chapter 34, verses 6 and 7 is the gospel with a piece missing. That's the reason for Moses it was only the back. The gospel is, I am absolutely just and I'm absolutely loving, but on the cross of Jesus Christ, in the face of Jesus Christ alone, do we have an absolutely just and absolutely loving God? If you take Jesus out, there's one of two ways you can look at God. You can be a loving only God. I believe in God loves everybody. Fine, but it's not glorious, is it? It's not glorious. It doesn't electrify. It doesn't, you just say, well, sure, I believe in God loves everybody. There's no glory. There's no transformation. There's no, there's no electrification, spiritually speaking. On the other hand, there's a moralist approach. I believe in a holy God and if you're very good, God will take you to heaven, but if not, there's no glory there either. See, you take Jesus out and you don't have a glorious God at all. In the face of Jesus, seeing what Jesus has done, there you have, finally, a God of glory. When you gaze on that, you'll adore. And as you realize what he has done for you, incredibly, not only will God matter more to you than anybody else, but anything else in the world, you'll start to realize that you matter to God and you won't have to look to anything else to feel that you matter and you're being changed. As you gaze on his glory, you're being changed into something glorious too. There it is. The radical extremity of the gospel. You're more wicked than you ever dared believe, but you're more loved and accepted than you ever dared to hope at once because of Jesus. Take Jesus out and you don't have glory. You don't have the gloriousness. Moses saw the back. We see the front. Your whole life, this is what you've been after. Look into the gospel. Let us pray. Thank you, Father, for showing us what we can be in you. Give us grace to apply these teachings to our lives. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.
