If there's no resurrection of the dead, then not even Christ has been raised. And if Christ has not been raised, our preaching is useless, and so is your faith. More than that, we are found to be false witnesses about God, for we testified about God that he raised Christ from the dead. But he did not raise him if in fact the dead are not raised, for if the dead are not raised, then Christ has not been raised either. And if Christ has not been raised, then your faith is futile and you are still in your sins. Then those who have fallen asleep in Christ are lost. If only for this life we have hope in Christ, we are to be pitied more than all men. But Christ has indeed been raised from the dead, the firstfruits of those who have fallen asleep. As for us, why do we endanger ourselves every hour? I die every day. I mean that. Brothers, just as surely as I glory over you in Christ Jesus our Lord, if I fought wild beasts in Ephesus for merely human reasons, what have I gained? If the dead are not raised, let's eat and drink, for tomorrow we die. This is God's word. In the first 11 verses, which we looked at for a few weeks,

Paul tells us, how we have to believe in the resurrection of Christ. How to believe in it. But in verses 12 to the end of the chapter, Paul shifts and he begins to show us how we are to live the resurrection. Not just how to believe it, but how to live it. For the resurrection of Christ is not just something to be believed, but an experience. It's actually, as we're going to see in the coming weeks, as it says in verse 20, the resurrection of Christ, Christ is the first fruit of them that sleep, which means the life of the future world has been brought into our present. Christians who experience the resurrection of Christ are people who are living in this world with the energy of the next. And Paul, through the rest of this chapter, provides for us some examples of the kind of characteristics that this new resurrection life, this life in a new dimension, has. Remember, we said, Paul, last week we looked at this, Paul doesn't say, by the grace of God, I think what I think. He doesn't say, by the grace of God, I do what I do. He said, by the grace of God, I am what I am. My whole being has changed. Christianity is more than just picking up an ethic or a philosophy. I've become a completely new person. The resurrection of Christ is not just something to be believed. It is a power. It's a new life. Now, we're going to look for the next few weeks at some of the characteristics of this life, but the first characteristic we look at today, Paul tells us that the resurrection, if you understand it, if you believe it, if you live it, if it's in the middle of your life, the doctrine of the resurrection makes you a hero. Heroism. Courage. Paul was a professor. Don't forget that. He was a scholar. Remember Festus, when Festus heard, Paul explained, the Christian faith, Festus says, Paul, your great learning has driven you mad. Paul was a professor. Paul was a scholar. And yet he says, verse 30, as for us, why do we endanger ourselves every hour? If I die every day, I die every day, I mean that, brothers, just as surely as I glory over you in Christ Jesus our Lord. If I fought wild beasts in Ephesus for merely human reasons, what have I gained? If the dead are not raised, let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we die. So don't be misled. Come back to your senses as you ought and stop sinning. What's he saying? The resurrection turned Paul into a hero. He says, every hour I face danger and every day I face death. He doesn't give us much of a catalog right here. If you read 2 Corinthians 11 someday, just in passing, he mentions to the Corinthians in his second letter all the things that he has faced for the sake of his mission to plant churches and to bring the Christian message to the entire Mediterranean. In 2 Corinthians, he just mentions this offhand. He says, you know, he says, five times I've received 39 lashes. By the way, keep in mind, the lashes were not just a leather whip, but at the end of the whips when they gave men 39 lashes were little pieces of bone and metal at the end of the whips so that it would rip the flesh off. Five times I received 39 lashes. Three times, he says, I was beaten with rods. Once I was stoned. I was stoned. Three times shipwrecked. I spent a day and a night in open sea in danger from rivers, danger from bandits, dangers from Jews, danger from Gentiles, danger in the city, danger in the country, danger at sea. I've gone without sleep, gone without food, been naked and cold. Who is weak? He says, and I am not weaker. Now in this passage, he doesn't mention any of those things. He says, I fought wild beasts at Ephesus. And nobody knows really what he's talking about because there's no place in the book of Acts that describes that one. There's actually no place in the Bible that describes most of the things he mentions in 2 Corinthians. We do know that sometimes emperors and noblemen would throw a person, would throw a man into the arena with wild beasts, but give him a weapon. It was a punishment, but it was a way for a person to redeem himself. We know it was done. We know the emperor Domitian did it to a number of people. Is that what happened to Paul? Maybe. On the other hand, it's possible that Paul was speaking metaphorically. It could have been that at Ephesus, where he was stoned or where he was beaten with rods or where he was flogged, then he's speaking metaphorically. It doesn't matter. The point is, Paul says, because of the fact that he was stoned, because of the resurrection, and only because of the resurrection. If it wasn't for the resurrection, I couldn't do this, but because of the resurrection of Jesus Christ, I face danger every hour. I face death every day, even wild beasts. Nothing cows me. Nothing intimidates me. Nothing stops me. He's fearless. Well, now that's pretty interesting. A professor becomes a hero. How does that happen? How could you become a hero rather than a coward? How could you grow into heroism? It's all here. Because you see, the Bible, and I think one of the most disconcerting parts of biblical teaching, is that heroism and cowardice is not a matter of temperament. It's not a matter of being just born with nerves of steel. Oh, no. In the book of Revelation, we're told that the cowards are thrown into the lake of fire with the thieves and the murderers. It's one of the most, one of the most distressing passages in the Bible for me. And therefore, cowardice or heroism is really not a matter of temperament, just whether you have strong nerves or you have weak nerves. No. The Bible says heroism is a command. And it is a possibility if you understand the doctrine of the resurrection of Christ. How about you? Are you heroes? Are you getting to be heroes? Don't you ever wonder what it would be like if you really... See, the problem with modern people, if you want an adventure, you've got to go look for one. In the old days, up until 100 years ago, just normal living was an adventure. See, if you want an adventure, you can get into a sailboat and sail across the Atlantic. That's an adventure. You have to do that. You have to look for it. It used to be anybody who went across the Atlantic was in an adventure. Your life was always being risked. We don't do that anymore. Our technology, we've made it impossible for us to know really what we're made of. Are you heroic? Do you have it in you? How can you become a hero? If you look closely, in the passage, Paul shows you what it takes to have courage. And this is what he tells us. I'll mention these three things for those of you who would like to remember them. And then we'll go through them. First of all, here's what it does. Here's what makes you heroic. Here's what gives you courage. First, you need a sounder or surer compass first. You need a sounder compass than your own feelings. Secondly, you need a farther horizon than your own lifespan. And thirdly, you need a higher aim than your own personal happiness. A sounder compass than your feelings. A farther horizon than your lifespan. A higher aim than your personal happiness. And unless you have all three of those, you don't have courage. You don't have any basis for courage. And the heroic is impossible. Let me show you. First of all, he has a surer compass than his feelings. He's basing his heroism on facts, not his feelings. He's basing them on truth, not his experience. He says, if this isn't true, why am I dying every day? And notice he even says in verse 34, which is not printed for you, he says to them, come back to your senses as you ought and stop sinning. In other words, the fact that these Corinthians had begun to disbelieve in the resurrection, that's what the whole chapter is written for. The fact that some in the Corinthian church had begun to teach that maybe there was no resurrection had actually led them to sinning. The mindset of the modern mentality goes like this. Doctrine, dogma, truth, who knows? It doesn't matter. What really matters is practical living. Don't look at a religion and ask if it's true. Ask whether it meets my needs. Ask, see the important thing is, does it help you? Does it help you address your problems? Does it work for you? That's what's important about religion. Not whether they're true. When you take that mentality and apply it to Christianity, it goes like this. Ah, says the person, the modern person, look at Christianity. You know, there's a lot of good things about Christianity. It believes that God is love. It talks about loving one's neighbor. Very important. Very, very good. But there's a lot of doctrines and dogmas that we as modern people can't believe anymore. We can't believe that Jesus was the pre-existent son of God, that his birth was miraculous, that he was born of a virgin, that he was physically, literally raised from the dead, that he did miracles all of his life. We can't believe that anymore, but we don't have to. That kind of belief. That kind of thing. Those doctrines were written by pre-modern people. It doesn't accord with our modern scientific understanding of the world. And besides that, all of those kinds of doctrines and dogmas, they divide people. Who knows? The important thing is, does Christianity work for you? If it works for you, if it helps you, if it gives you a way of making decisions, if it gives you guidance in life and it gives you personal peace in your heart, then it's true for you. That's what matters. That's what counts. Now, this entire chapter is written to say that kind of reasoning is dangerous, specious, a betrayal not only of the Christian faith, but of common sense. Because Paul points out, and the whole Bible points out, that there is nothing practical about Christianity if it's not true. There is no basis for moral courage, there is no basis for sacrifice and self-denial on the basis of your feelings. Only on the basis of truth. Read the Psalms. People love the Psalms because they're so emotional. The Psalms are deep psychological studies. David, and he's not the only one who wrote the Psalms, but the Psalm writers always are looking inside. And there's marvelous explorations of the emotions of grief and of fear and of depression and of bitterness and of anxiety. But if you look carefully, when I read the Psalms, I find that they're not just about the spiritual life. Whenever the Psalmist seeks to help you cope, whenever the Psalmist is helping himself cope with anxiety and depression and anger and fear, what does he say? He says, look at what God has done for David. Look what God has done for Jacob. Look what God has done for Abraham. Look what God has done for Moses. Look at how he led the children of Israel across the Red Sea. If we have a God like that, we can have confidence. Look carefully. Do you see what he's saying? If God has actually done what the Bible says, if the great miracle of the Red Sea crossing really happened, then we can face our depression. Otherwise, look at Paul. How does Paul tell you to deal with anxiety? Christianity is very practical. Paul says, if God is for us, who can be against us? If God delivered up Jesus Christ for us, if he gave up his only begotten Son, how shall he not also with him freely give us all things? Now, what's Paul saying? Look, because Jesus was raised, I know God gave up his only Son. How do you deal with anxiety, Paul says? Well, think about this. Did the Father actually empty his heart of its greatest treasure? Did God the Father actually send him down and let him be torn to pieces on a tree? Did God the Father send him down and let him be free for you? That shows he loves you. That shows that God is for us. Now, if God is for us, now, you see what Paul is doing? There is no practical help in Christianity unless the things, the doctrines, the dogmas, the facts that it proclaims are true. Did Jesus rise from the dead? Did the Red Sea part? Has God done these things? Then you can face anything. If not, come on. See, Christianity is much more no-nonsense than the modern mentality. Look and see how the modern person deals with worry. Pick up any book on worry and it will say, well, you have to replace the negative thoughts with positive thoughts. Christianity says, come on. Why? Did you read about, actually, did you see the news in the last couple of days? A little boy, seven-year-old boy, in North Brunswick, New Jersey, standing in his own yard, just standing in his yard, there was a sinkhole under him. Did you see that? The ground opened up from underneath him and he went way down deep and it closed up over him. He was just standing in his yard. Seven hours later, they burrowed to him and found him. He was dead. Seven-year-old kid, in his own yard. The ground opens up. He disappears. He closes up. Tell me that the world isn't full of random, senseless violence. Show me. Hmm? Well, now, what you have to do is you have to replace that negative thought with a positive thought. No, Christianity says, listen. Is it true what the Bible says? Genesis 3 tells us that the world is in the state that it's in, not by God's design. The world is full of evil and wickedness because of sin. But God has sent His Son as the firstfruits of His power. And He's come into our lives and eventually God's power is going to come in and it's going to change everything forever. Is that true? Is that the nature of things? Then you have got a truth that will enable you to face anything. If it's not true, then the world is senseless. The world is random. There's no basis for courage. What do you mean, replace the negative thought with a positive thought? Christianity is too no-nonsense. It says, the only practical help we can give you is if God has done these things, then there's all kinds of help. If not, let me put it another way. Somebody out here says, look, I've experienced financial setbacks. I've had a problem. I've experienced physical setbacks. I've experienced relational setbacks. I've come here looking for some cheer. I've come here looking for some inspiration. Now, I don't know what I believe, really, about all these things. I don't know if I believe in the physical resurrection. I don't know if I believe the Bible. I don't know if I believe any of these things. I was looking for some cheer and inspiration. And what are you telling me? Dogma, doctrine. You're saying I've got to believe all this. What does that help me? Well, look, let me put it to you this way. Do you believe that Jesus is the Son of God? That he died upon the tree for you? That he rose triumphant over it all? That he defeated death? That he's passed through the heavens? That he's sitting at the right hand of the Father? And that he's going to return to make everything right? Do you believe that? Then you've got more than cheer and inspiration. You've got something that will help you face anything. You've got a glory that will swallow up any darkness. You've got a light and high beauty forever beyond the reach of any shadow. But if you don't believe that, if you don't know that there's a God, if you believe that, as Bertrand Russell says, you're just an accident, you're just the chance collocation of atoms, well, you're trapped here. You've got 80 years and you've got to find all the happiness you'll ever find right here. And if anything has done anything wrong, if anything has destroyed your comfort, anything destroyed your health or your wealth, that's it. See, Christianity is a world of Christianity is no nonsense. Is this stuff true? You've got all the reason to have courage. If it's not true, what reason do you have for courage anyway? We're in a lot of trouble. Because the modern mentality says there is no truth. If there is no truth, there is no courage at all. Recently, at Harvard University, a student gave a graduation address. And the student said, I don't know if it was a man or a woman, so I can't say he or she, but the student said this, I believe one thing we've all acquired at some point in Harvard careers is, in a word, confusion. They tell us it's heresy to suggest the superiority of some value over another. They tell us it's fantasy to believe in any moral argument. They tell us we may devote ourselves to any values we please on the condition we do not believe them to be true. And Dorothy Sayers, 50 years ago, the great Christian author, said this, In the world that's called total tolerance, in hell it's called despair. The sin that believes in nothing, cares for nothing, seeks to know nothing, enjoys nothing, finds purpose in nothing,

lives for nothing, but remains alive because there is nothing for which it will die. What she's saying is, if there's nothing beyond your feelings, you never have a reason to die. You never die for a feeling. Feelings are just your feelings. Truth is for everybody, but feelings are just for you, and feelings change. Look, suppose I say, look at these people over here, they're being enslaved. Is it worth dying to save them? You say yes, but you're basing that on a truth. If God created us, if you're the result of a personal designer, then human beings have values, values and dignity. But if, as Bertrand Russell says, there is no God, that we're just the chance collocation of atoms, then how can you really say there's a difference between a rock and a human being? Why is a human being more special than a rock? Why should you die for someone unless you know that they are valuable? How do you know that they're valuable? Unless you believe things about the universe, about God, about truth. There's no basis for courage without truth. There's got to be a truth beyond thought. There's got to be a feeling or there can be no courage. There never has been, never will be. Paul says, if there's no resurrection, I don't die. What's the use of dying? Why face danger every hour? It's ridiculous. And we're in a condition now, we're in a modern situation where people are telling us there is no truth, therefore there's nothing to die for. First, you want to be a hero? You want courage? You've got to deal with those issues. I know, some of you are out there saying, I'm in pain, I don't know what I believe. But you've got to decide what you believe. Or you'll never get out of your pain. I'm full of fear, I don't know what I believe. You've got to decide what you believe or you will never get over your fear. You've got to decide, are you the creation of a personal creator? Are you an accident? There's no way to deal with life. There's no way to have courage. There's no way to do anything until you decide those things. You'll never have courage without truth. Secondly, now this is very closely tied and I can be very brief on this, but this is my second point. Paul doesn't just say there's no courage without truth. You have to have a sounder compass than your feelings. But secondly, you have to have a higher horizon than your lifespan. Now this is intimately connected to the first point so I can be brief. Paul says, if there is no resurrection, let us eat and drink for tomorrow we die. What's Paul saying here? He's just saying this. He says, if there's no courage without truth, but there's no truth if this life is all there is. If there is no life beyond tomorrow when we die, if there's no life beyond tomorrow, then there is no basis for saying anything is right or wrong. There's no basis for any kind of truth. See, it's very closely allied to the first, but it's a separate issue and we have to mention it. Marxist analysis has always said religion is the opiate of the people. Why? Religion, by giving people a belief in an afterlife, keeps them from working for justice in this life. That's the Marxist analysis. Paul says, that's nonsense. Because if there is no afterlife, if there is no bigger world than this life, then there's no way to know what justice is. If there is no bigger world or bigger standard, says Paul, then how do you know what is right and what is wrong? If this world is all that there is, then life is eating, life is drinking, life is appetite. That's what he says. And that's true. Science and reason can never tell you what should be, only what is. Is the Marquis de Sade and Lenny Bruce right? They both said the same thing. What is, is right. Because there isn't anything else and there's no way to know that anything is wrong. Look at nature. Look at what is. If this is all that there is, what do you find in nature? You find the food chain. What do you learn from nature? Compassion? Concern for the weak? Love for the poor? No. Survival of the fittest, the food chain. Look. If this life is all there is, life is eating. The stronger ones eat the weaker ones. And you see, there's nothing more to it than that. And Paul says therefore, and you know, today, philosophers admit this frankly. Postmodern philosophers absolutely admit it right away. If this life is all there is, if there's no tomorrow beyond, if there's no life beyond tomorrow, there's no way of talking about mercy and justice. There's no way to define it. There's no way at all. Do you see how practical this is? Mother Teresa is able to do the things she does. Why? Because she's got the freedom knowing that this life is not all there is. She sacrificed. Well, she's become famous, but that's an accident. She never expected it. And there's been tons of Mother Teresa's all over the place that never got famous, never got Nobel Prizes, never got huge amounts of money from foundations. They just got killed. The fact is, the only way that most of the evil and suffering and injustice of this world will ever be solved is if it will be addressed. It will be addressed by people who have the freedom to risk everything. Now, how can you risk everything if you can't even define evil? If this life is all there is, you can't even define it. And if this life is all there is, how can you risk everything? But you see, a Paul or a Mother Teresa or you and me, if we understand that this life is more than eating, that there is something after tomorrow, we've got capital in the bank. We can spend it. We can spend a lot of our comfort here on this earth for the 80 years that we've got. But it's very, very little. A Christian knows that the comfort here and the health here and the wealth you've got here are sort of like the pocket change you keep in your pocket when all of your money is actually in the bank. If you've got 75 cents and somebody mugs you and you give them 75 cents but there's a million dollars in the bank, how upset can you be? But if you've got nothing but that 75 cents, and that's all you've got, that'll just be barely enough, you know, to get yourself one last bagel. If somebody mugs you of it, you're devastated. Well, that's the difference between a Mother Teresa and a person who says, tomorrow we die and that's it. The Marxists are wrong, says Paul. Absolutely wrong. Unless you've got a horizon beyond your present lifespan, and unless you've got, a truth beyond your feelings, there's no basis for heroism. There's no basis for courage at all. But that's not all. Lastly, we said, you need a sure compass than your feelings, you need a farther horizon than your, your lifespan, but most important maybe of all, you need a higher aim than your own personal happiness. What does Paul say? He says, I glory over you in Christ Jesus. Courage comes from having a higher aim than just being comfortable. Now this word glory is very important. A year ago or so, when we were in the book of John, we had to talk about it a lot, because the Gospel writer John talks about glory all the time. What does the word glory mean in the Bible? It means weight. And it literally means weight. To glory in something means, its importance, to see its importance. And when you say I glory in something, it means this is what gives me importance. This is what gives me import. This is what gives me weight. Whatever you glory in the most, determines what you're the most afraid of. And therefore it determines whether you're a coward or a hero. Let me explain. I was reading a short story some years ago, and I don't even remember who wrote it. I don't even remember where it is. So somebody comes up to me afterwards and says, where's that short story? But here's what I remember about it. It's a great story. In it, there was a man

who desperately wanted to be in love and married, but nobody would have him because he was particularly ugly. It's an old story, before cosmetic surgery obviously. And as a result, his life was miserable, and finally he decided he didn't want to live. Because he didn't want to live, he began to take risks with his life. And he got into a couple of situations in which he saved some people only because he didn't want to live anyway. Ironically, he was successful in his attempts to rescue people, and he became an instant celebrity, and everybody thought he was a hero. But was he a hero? And the author of the story shows, rightly so, not a bit. Because actually, though it looked like he would risk physical harm, physical harm wasn't what he was really afraid of. He was actually a coward by risking physical harm. In fact, you see, suicide is the greatest cowardice of all. Suicide is on the rise in our society because we don't have truth beyond our feelings, and we don't have any aims higher than our personal happiness, and suicide will continue to arise for the next 20 or 30 years. Because it's the greatest form of cowardice that there is. Why was that man willing to face physical death? Here's why. Because what he gloried in was love. He wanted someone to love him. And the one thing he couldn't face, the greatest terror of his life that he wouldn't face, and therefore he was a coward, is he couldn't face living a life of duty and service to other people, being alone. He couldn't do it. He couldn't face it. Why was he a coward? Because his greatest terror was not to die, physically. His greatest terror was to live and not have anybody be in love with him. To actually live and just serve people, live and do his duty, live and just live his life. He wouldn't face it. And the writer was right. He was a coward. Now the wonderful thing, therefore, about understanding heroism is a lot of people who look like heroes aren't at all. What makes you a hero is that you can face your greatest terror. Alfred Adler, the great psychologist, founded a school called Individual Psychology. And Adler's whole school of psychology is based on this idea. He says none of us really feel that we've got weight. We're all afraid that we're not real. We're afraid we're ephemeral, momentary. We want to have clout. We want to have import. And so all of us choose a high priority. And we find that priority, we make that our priority because we think that's the way we will get glory. Some people try to find glory through approval. They try to please people. Some people try to find glory through power. They try to beat people. This is all from Alfred Adler. Some people try to find glory through comfort. They try to avoid people. And therefore, if your number one priority, the way you're trying to get glory, is comfort, then your greatest fear is stress. But if your number one glory is approval, your greatest fear is rejection. But if your number one priority is power, then your greatest fear is humiliation. And one person's terror is not another person's terror. That's why one person can look heroic in a situation where another person is afraid. But no, we're all afraid. Everybody's got a terror, something, a horror. One of the strange things about being married is you always find out, almost always, the person you're married to has a different terror than yours. And when that terror approaches, you can feel very courageous. Come, honey, it's not so bad. Just because the children look like they're going to turn out to be juvenile delinquents? Oh. We've got each other, he says heroically. But you see, that's not my greatest terror. That's not my greatest terror. It's not my reputation. You see, what is your greatest terror? It's whatever you glory in. It's whatever you think will get you. It's what will give you impact and import. And a real hero is somebody who faces that great terror and changes what you glory in. A hero is somebody who glories in something that no one can touch. What did Paul do? When Paul says, I glory in you, the reason I'm facing all of these awful things, the reason I'm facing wild beasts, see, the reason I'm facing death every day is because I glory in you. Ah, does that mean, be careful, how does Paul find his reality? What makes Paul feel real? What makes Paul feel like he's important? What gives Paul his sense of value and worth? His converts. Is that what it says? Is that what he means? You see, if that was true, Paul could be either an approval junkie or a power junkie. And the fact that he's got people who've been converted is what gives him a sense of glory. But you know, if that was true, whenever they were disloyal to him, he would be terrified. He'd be afraid to confront them. He'd be afraid to speak for himself. He'd be fearlessly in love. But that's never true of Paul, if you read his material. He doesn't say, I glory in you. He says, I glory in you in Christ Jesus. Jesus is his glory, and therefore any success that comes along is just evidence that Jesus really loves him. It's penultimate. It's additional. It's the icing on the cake. But what makes Paul know that he has glory, what makes Paul know he's got value is that Jesus was raised for him, and therefore died for him. The resurrection of Jesus is your receipt. Yesterday I was in a store. My kids bought something, and I said, keep the receipt. Why? Because on the way out, if anybody questions you, you can prove that you owe nothing. Here's my receipt. I don't owe anything on this piece of material. See? It's mine. What is the resurrection? It's a receipt on your soul. The resurrection, the fact that God raised Jesus from the dead, proves that Jesus paid for your sins, that he paid all the debt. See? And that means that when Paul looks at the resurrection of Christ, he can look at anyone who accuses him of anything and say, I'm free. I owe nothing. I owe you nothing, because I'm accepted by my Father. That's the reason Paul can talk the way he does. And if you want courage, you have to accept the same gospel Paul preaches and then read his cries. Paul's always giving you cries of courage. In Romans 8 he says, if God is for us, who shall be against us? He says, who charges me of anything? He says in Romans 8. Who condemns me? It's Christ that died. Christ is risen. Christ is interceding for me at the Father's right hand. What shall separate me from the love of Christ? Says Paul. I die every day. And I don't care. I'm not afraid of nakedness or peril or sword or tribulation. He says, no, in all these things, we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. For I am persuaded that neither death nor life, nor angels, nor powers, nor principalities, nor anything to come, nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature will be able to separate me from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. How can he do that? The fact that he's got converts is one more little bit of evidence that God loves him, that God's using him. So he glories in them in Christ Jesus. He's happy with success. He's happy with conversions. But that's not what makes him. That's not what gives him value. He's got a higher aim than approval. He's got a higher priority than comfort. He's got a higher priority than power. He finds that because God loves him in Christ and that he knows he's valuable, his high priority is simply to honor the one who's honored him. And that means he can take anything. He can handle anything. He says, heart, with all of your performance-driven anxieties, shut up. You don't terrify me anymore. World, with all of your changing opinions, you don't terrify me anymore. Death, you don't terrify me anymore either because nothing you take from me will really be my glory. World, heart, death, you can't take from me the real thing that makes me. My life is hid with God in Christ. Do you want to be a hero? There it is. You need a sounder compass. You need truth beyond your feelings. You need a horizon beyond this lifespan. And you need an aim beyond your own personal happiness. If you seek his happiness, you'll find yours. If you seek your happiness, you'll find neither. And that's the principle of the Scripture. In conclusion, Christian friends, let me ask you something. Let me start with you. Do you see yourself growing in fearlessness? I think it's very hard for us modern people to know. It's very hard. As I said in the beginning, because of the technology of our age, because we've been so good at making ourselves safe, it's very difficult for us to know how we really will react to adventures. But you can watch in the little arenas. We're not going to probably watch in the little arenas. I don't think any of us will ever be in the big arenas. We're not going to be thrown in with the wild beasts. Very unlikely. But every day there's little arenas. Little, little beasties. How are you doing there? Are you afraid of what people will think if you identify yourself as a Christian? Can you face the fact that a completely unwavering Christian commitment will limit your options as to where you can work, who you can marry, and how much money you can make in many cases? That takes courage to face that. Little arenas. How are you doing? Or let me put it this way. You know what you're really terrified at. Some of you are terrified by rejection. Some are terrified by humiliation. Terrified by failure. Terrified by what people think. Can you see some of those old terrors lying dead at your feet now? Or at least maimed and bleeding? Can you see those things? Can you say, I am growing in fearlessness, I see it in my life? Or not? If not, I tell you, there's only two possibilities. Either right now you are being disobedient in some way. You're fudging. And your conscience is bad and that will make you a coward. Remember what Hamlet says? Conscience makes cowards of us all. If your conscience is bothering you, Christian, no matter how much you believe this stuff, you're a coward. You'll feel like a coward. You will not have this moral courage that God says is possible for you in the resurrection. Either you're being disobedient or you're simply not taking the time in prayer, in reflection, in fellowship, in small group fellowship, in Christian friendship. You're not driving these truths in. I'll never forget how Paul had such self-control when he was on trial in Acts 23. And somebody slaps him. And he turns and he says, Somebody should slap you, you fool. And somebody says, You talk to the priest like that? And Paul turns around and says, Oh yes. He says, As it is written, Thou shalt not revile a ruler of thy people. And he quotes Exodus chapter 28 verse 20. How many of you, under stress, can quote Exodus chapter 28 verse 20? How many of you know the Scripture that well, huh? How many of you have saturated yourself so much in these truths, like Paul obviously is, that he can face anything? Christian friends, are you growing in fearlessness? Are you growing in courage? You've got a spirit. I know many of you are just dominated by a spirit of fear. Many of you are afraid to commit,

financially, commit relationally, to any church, for example. Many of you are afraid to get into a small group because, you know, what if it's a group I don't like? What if the people ask me to do things I don't want to do? I mean, we are dominated by a spirit of fear. Do you see how wrong that is? Do you see how unnecessary that is? And lastly, if there's anybody here who says, I don't know what I believe about any of this stuff, all I can tell you is, beware. Whatever you glory in has a dark side to it. If you're not a Christian, if you're not living for Him, if His love for you isn't real to you, if it's not your honor and your glory,

whatever your glory is, if it's not Christ, has a dark side to it. There's a tear underneath it. And if you've never smelled it and felt it, if you've never had a spirit of fear, you're just very young, it's going to come up eventually. How stupid it would be if people didn't even begin to look for a gas station until after they ran out of gas. And how stupid it is for people to wait until they find out the things they're living for aren't sufficient, until their life is broken down before they start to ask themselves, I wonder if Christianity is true. Look at it now. Figure these things out now, or there's no basis for courage or sacrifice or any kind of greatness. He says, if you come to me, I'll give you the hidden manna. He says, I'll give you the morning star. What does that mean? I don't know, but it sounds great. Come to him. He says, Christ is risen from the dead. Christ has been risen from the dead. Therefore, nothing cows me. Nothing intimidates me. Nothing will get me down. That's the reason why he's able to say, therefore, brethren, stand firm. Let nothing move you. Do you want to be like that? You want to have a character like that? You want to have a life like that? It's possible. Come to him. Let's pray. Father, we do ask that you would make us people who

stand firm, let nothing move us, because we've got a truth beyond our feelings, a horizon beyond our lifespans, and an aim for your glory. We pray that you'll make us into heroes. We see that it's possible. Forgive us for our low expectations for ourselves. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
