To all who received him, to those who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God, children born, not of natural descent, nor of human decision, or of a husband's will, but born of God. This ends the reading of God's Word. The reason we're looking at the Gospel of John is because John addresses better than any other book of the Bible the question, who is Jesus? And we're saying each week, let's remind ourselves that's the most important question that has ever been asked. And the answer to it will completely determine how you live. Flannery O'Connor puts it perfectly in her great short story, my favorite short story, a peerless short story, A Good Man is Hard to Find. And in that story, there is an ex-convict, an escaped convict, excuse me. An escaped convict named the Misfit. And the Misfit has captured a family. And wants the car, needs the car. And so he's taking the family members one at a time into the woods and killing them. And as he's doing this, he's talking to the grandmother, the matron of the clan. And the grandmother represents all the shallowness of our human culture because she keeps on saying to him, as his henchmen take the little boys and girls and take them off into the woods and shoots them. She keeps saying, I can tell you're a good man. You wouldn't do this. You wouldn't harm people. I can tell you're a good man. And just before the misfit shoots her three times in the chest, he says this. He basically says to her, hey, there are no good and bad people. Instead, he says,

Jesus has thrown everything off balance. If he did what he said, then there's nothing to do but throw away everything and follow him. And if he didn't, then there's nothing to do but enjoy the few minutes you have left by killing someone or burning down his house or doing some meanness, and there's hardly no pleasure in that. How perfectly. You see what he's saying? He says, what's this good and bad stuff? if Jesus Christ is who he said he was, that's one thing. If there is no Jesus Christ, or if he is not God, if we can't know God personally through him, or if we don't know if there is a God and we have no hope and we're not sure about these things. Then he says, Who's to say what's good? Who's to say what's kind? Who's to say what's courageous? If I want to shoot people, who's going to say that's wrong? wrong. But on the other hand, he says, if Jesus was who he said he was, then we have to throw everything over and follow him. There's no good and bad, he says. If there's Jesus, then we have a reason for following him. And if he's not who he said he was, then nobody has the right to talk about right or wrong or good or bad. Don't you see? Your very life hinges on the answer to the question, who is Jesus? And everybody in this room, everybody in this town, either responsibly or irresponsibly, either without any kind of decent reflection or with reflection, has made the decision, and that decision has completely affected how they live. The misfit was right. So we look at the book of John to find out who Jesus is. And Jesus, we've learned a lot already just in the first few verses, but today John says, in him was life. And Jesus at this point is being shown by John as the source of new life. And there's four very, very simple teachings here that a child can grasp, but that is hard for the rest of us, and that we just have to look at very clearly. The four teachings are, apart from Jesus, we're spiritually dead, that in Jesus we can receive new life through the new birth. Jesus brings us the new life through the new birth. Thirdly, through the new birth, we have family rights and are brought into the family of God. We become sons and daughters. And fourthly, this all comes into our life if we believe in his name. That's what he's telling us here. We're spiritually dead. We can have the new birth. We can be adopted into his family. And it all happens through believing on his name. Now, how simple is that? But since most of you aren't children, I probably ought to explain it. Here's what John says. First, first of all, all human beings are dead. You see, in verse 10 and 11, we're told that Jesus Christ's life is like light. And yet, when he came to human beings, human beings rejected the light, just couldn't comprehend it, couldn't understand it, couldn't grasp it. Now, you see, the mark of someone who is dead is that a dead body has no sensitivity to stimuli. And what the Bible tells us here, but tells us really throughout, is that in our we're dead, we're incapable of being sensitive to spiritual stimuli. What does that mean? Well, what does it mean to be physically dead? It means the body is dead, it's not capable of movement or growth or sensitivity. Spiritually, it's the same. Here's a person, a spiritually dead person might enjoy football, might absolutely love art, might enjoy reading the newspaper, paper, and yet the spiritually dead person, when you bring him to the truths of the Bible, the sinfulness of human beings, or the death of Christ, what you'll find is the spiritually dead person either finds that disgusting, or he may find it uninteresting, or he may even say, I believe it. But there's no sight. There's no hearing. There's no joy. There's no relish. There's no sense of any truth dawning on him. There's no connection. It doesn't affect him. And yet, as many people in this room I know understand this firsthand, when spiritual life begins to come in, you begin to see these things in a new way. You start to say, I'm interested in this. I'd heard this before, but now I'm interested. And as the spiritual life develops in your life, Very much stimulate you. They thrill you. They electrify you. They comfort you. They strengthen you. They revolutionize you. And you're always saying. Why didn't I see this before? And the answer is. Because you were dead. Dead people don't see things. Dead people don't hear things. Dead people don't notice things. Dead people don't know they're dead. And that's one of the ways. You know that you are. You don't think you are. Well, now somebody says, no way. This is going. This is strong stuff. Why don't you say that human beings are sick. That human beings are hurting. And they need God as their physician. And they need God to help them. Well, because the Bible says very clearly. We are not sick in our sins. We're not just hurting in our sins. We're not just disabled in our sins. We're dead in our sins. And we need to be made alive together with Christ. Ephesians 2. Put it another way. The reason you don't feel dead is because there's different levels of life. For example, you have vegetable life. And vegetable organisms are alive. And yet compared to animal life, vegetable organisms don't even look alive. By the criteria of the higher form of life, the lower form of life barely look alive. I mean, a cucumber looks dead compared to a dog. And then we can go up one step higher. When you see a human being living at the level of a dog, you don't even consider that person alive, especially if the person is congenitally, mentally deformed in some way. Because you see, mental human life is as much higher than animal life, as animal life is higher than vegetable life. And now along comes Christianity. And Christianity says there is a spiritual life. There's a way of seeing and thinking. there's a spiritual life which is as much higher than mental human life, as mental human life is higher than the animal or the vegetable. To change from the natural to the spiritual life is about as big a change as for a puppet to become a real boy like Pinocchio. It's like before the spiritual change that happens to you. You're like a statue of yourself, a rigid image of your true self. But just as you need to be physically born into mental human life, you have to be spiritually born into spiritual life. And that's the second teaching. So the first teaching is we all are dead and we need, therefore, a new life. Secondly, that new life comes in the form of the new birth. And in verse 12 and 13, it says so clearly, Yet to all who received him, to those who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God, children not of natural descent, but born of God. And in the original text, it says children not born of blood, but born of God. As clearly as John can say it, he says we're not talking about the first kind of birth, the physical birth that brings you into animal and human life. But we're talking about a different kind of birth that brings you into spiritual life, which is as much higher than human mental life as human mental life is from the vegetable. We're talking about the implantation of God's own nature, the Holy Spirit, being implanted, grafted in, surgically put into our heart. It's God's very lifeblood. The reason this is so important, and I'm sure that this is important for some of you, just today where you are right now in your walk. Right now where you are in your relationship with God. You need to hear this. Because whenever somebody begins to notice their need for God and they begin to see, Hey, I really cannot manage my life without help. You start to seek God and the first thing you do is you say, I need to turn over a new leaf. I need to get religious. I need to reform my life. And you're in for such misery. spent all of your life being crushed by expectations and standards, you know, trying to live up. And now you're going to take upon yourself a whole new set of them. The Bible says you do not need to turn over a new leaf. You need a whole new root. The Bible says, Jesus says, I am not out to make better people. I am out to make a whole new kind of person. I am not, in a sense, trying to get the horse to jump higher, but I want the horse to sprout wings. So he's a whole different species of creature. In other words, Jesus says, I am not out to make you ethical. I'm out to make you alive. It's not like you're unethical and had to become ethical, even though there is eventually a moral, it's inevitable, there's a moral reformation that does happen in the life of a person who's born anew. But Jesus says, I'm not out to make an Ethical person. Ethical. I'm out to make a dead person alive. And those are different. Look. Let me give you two examples. Of how an ethical person. Is different. Than an alive person. A spiritually. Alive person. First of all. Ethical people. And spiritually. Alive people. Have a completely. Different attitude. Toward truth. Ethical people. Say. There's the truth. I believe it. I. Enjoy it. I defend it. I live by it. But an alive person finds that the truth is a living thing. That they find that the truth, they become alive to the truth and the truth becomes alive in them. It comes on in. Colossians 3.16, that strange and great verse, let the word of God dwell in you richly. That's something that now and only now begins when you realize that you're alive. That's the way you know you're alive. Because what happens now is the truth comes on in and changes you, makes you look at yourself in a whole different way. It really gets inside and does some kind of surgery on you. The way you can tell that your understanding of the truth is the understanding of a living, spiritually alive person, is you start to say, how can I worry now that I see about the wisdom of God? How can I feel guilty now that I see the glorious mercy of God? You're saying, why didn't I see this before? The law of God to a spiritually alive person no longer is something you fear or resent, but you start to love its beauty. You start to say, oh, I want to be like that, and I want to please my master with the law by becoming more and more like him. appetites. You have new sensitivity because you're alive. In him is life. And that life is your light. Whereas an ethical person, an ethical person just heaps up ethical deeds. You know, like the way if you throw bricks on a pile, the pile grows, but it's not alive. It's a mechanical growth. It's not an organic growth. John Wesley, Martin Luther, and a number other of the great fathers of the faith spent a number of years in which they were ethical, but they weren't alive. And you can read about their stories, and you can see that they heaped up ethical deeds. They heaped up good deeds, just like throwing bricks on the pile. But it wasn't until they received new life that they actually began to grow from the inside organically, that they began to become wiser, deeper, whole different beings, sprouting wings. Someone touches the statues and I'm alive. Pinocchio says, I'm a real boy. Ethical people differ completely from alive people in their attitude toward truth. And, hear this, ethical people differ completely from alive people in their attitude toward themselves. See, ethical people generally, though you've got to be careful because deep down inside, inside, deep down, there's a lot of insecurity. But on the surface, ethical people feel pretty good about themselves. Ethical people say, hey, I carry my weight in this society. I'm responsible. I live life the way it should be lived. The world would be a much better place if people lived like I did. They know enough not to brag too much, but they feel, you know, hey, I pull my weight. But the identity of an alive person is completely different. Because you see, they have the gospel in their center. And the gospel becomes a living thing that revolutionizes their identity. The gospel comes to you and speaks to you, in a sense. The gospel of Jesus. The message of Christianity. The gospel comes like this. The gospel says, You're a sinner. All human beings are sinners. Yes, there's the pillars of the community and there's the violent criminals. And yet, you're all sinners because you all build your life around yourself. And you all center everything on yourself. self. And no, none of you love God with all your heart, soul, strength, and mind. And yet, through what Jesus Christ did on the cross, not on the basis of anything you have done or can do or ever will do, but on the basis of what Jesus did, God can welcome you into his family. Now, that message, what does that do? It humbles you into the dust. It destroys your pride, and yet you can't be depressed. You try. You know, the first response of a Christian who hears about sin, who God is really opening his eyes to his sin and also to what Jesus has done, you try at first to be depressed, but you can't. Because the message is that all people are equally sinners and all people are alike, recipients of grace if they come to God through Christ. And so on the one hand, you know, you're humbled into the dust, but you can't be depressed, but rather joyful and bold. And look at the difference it makes. Paul says, I was a Hebrew of the Hebrews. I had attained academically. I had attained racially. I had attained in every way, he says, but I counted all as rubbish for the surpassing worth of knowing Jesus Christ. He says, my old life doesn't count. The accomplishments are nothing. Those things that I live for, they're nothing. The trophies, so what? And my sins of the past, they don't count either. That's what's so funny. Not only do my trophies count anymore, so I can't be puffed up. Don't dog me anymore, so I can't be destroyed. Instead, you see, Paul has a new identity. The Bible is full of it. The Bible says you were lo ami. Once you were no people, but now you are God's people. Once you had not obtained mercy, and now you have obtained mercy. And so you see, a person who's alive is not always looking at himself. There's not this miserable self-consciousness. You're not always standing on your own dignity. You're not wondering and worrying about who's looking at you and what they're thinking about you. The new life. Have you got it? Are you alive? Listen, the best way to know that you're alive is you know you were dead. And the one way you know you're dead is that you don't know you're dead. I mean, what dead body ever knew it was dead? Do you have a new life? Don't let anyone, I don't want anyone here to say you're overdoing it. This is a very interesting place and a very interesting message, but you're being very sectarian and narrow-minded. It's good enough to be religious and decent. This new birth stuff is for some people but not for everybody. Does that make sense? Does it make sense? if I were to bring an elephant into your apartment and let it spend the afternoon and then take it away, you don't think you'd know it was there? The magnitude of the being demands that it will have revolutionized your apartment. It will have moved things around. Now, friends, how much more so must it be if the great God lives in your life? The Bible's definition of a Christian is someone where God has made his dwelling. You don't think, therefore, less than this? Somebody who's been moved to the depths of his being by the gospel. Someone who's been radically changed. Somebody who's had the furniture rearranged and it's continually happening. Someone who's surprised at what God is doing in their lives. Someone who's constantly saying, I never saw that before. I never knew I could do that before. Is that happening to you? Then don't say you're a Christian. Don't say God's in your apartment. You know, he cannot stay in a corner. You know he's there. And friends, if anybody here says, well, I don't need this kind of new life, you're just a statue. You're hard and cold. And if the sun, you know, remember in the old, in the old stories, if the sun came up and the trolls were caught by the dawn, they turned to stone. And if that great day dawns and you find yourself without the new birth and that irresistible light, you'll stay a statue forever. Now, don't say, well, I don't have the feelings. That's God's department, remember? He says, I will take out your heart of stone and give you a heart of flesh. Now, the only other thing we have to mention, the new birth gives us

family rights. It says, to as many as received him, he gave power, he gave right to become children of God. Now, a lot of people are surprised at this. They say, well, I thought God created everybody, so everybody is a child. I mean, I thought God is everybody's father. Well, no. Yes. I mean, if I build a chair, you could say I'm the father of the chair, but I'm not sure that our relationship is a filial relationship. What we're being told here is this. When you're born again, you have rights because you're adopted into the family. What are those rights? Just two. And every Christian who's here, who has received the new life, I want you to look at yourself and I want you to ask, am I living on the basis of these rights? The first right is intimate access to the Father. Intimate access. Now here's a hanging judge. Here's a guy who everyone is in awe of. He is tough as nails. He is incorrigible. And nobody wants to stand before his face. He's constantly meeting out justice and everyone is intimidated by him, but not his little son. Because at home, in front of the fireplace, on the rug, his little boy is on his back and they're frolicking and they're playing around. Why? Because that little boy knows that his father's a judge, but the father has swallowed up the judge for him. The Bible tells us what my sister tells us. I've mentioned this before. My sister says, you know, my sister has three biological children and two adopted children. And for the life of her, she says she can't find any difference in her heart in regarding one over the other. And if that's true of my sister, who's just a good woman, how much more true must it be of God, I adopt you. That means you have to say to yourself, my father in heaven loves me with all the power and magnitude that he loves his natural born son. My father loves me more than I love myself. My father wants greater things for me than I even want for myself. Live on the platform of that and you've got power for living. And the other thing that is a family right, the other thing is this. You're an heir. The Bible tells you that if you're a son or a daughter of the king, then everything the king owns will come to you. And what does the king own? Everything. Romans 8.18 says, someday when the sons of God are revealed in their glorious liberty, then the entire world, all of nature, is going to be revealed in all of its glory. That's our inheritance. We're going to rule and reign forever. On that day when the world is revealed in its glory, every blade of grass will be so clear, so sharp, so radiant, so colorful, so unbearingly beautiful

that we'll bow down and worship the one who made it. And we'll get new bodies, glorified bodies. That'll be part of our inheritance too. too. C.S. Lewis says, we will be like, he can make the feeblest and filthiest of us into bright, stainless mirrors, reflecting back to God his own boundless love and glory and beauty and delight and nobility and wisdom. That's your inheritance. Now, here's what I want to ask you, friends, Christian friends. I've already spoken to people who may need the new life. Now I'm speaking to those of you who have the new life. Let me ask you something. Are you rejoicing in your rights? Are you living on the basis of your rights? Is this what you remind yourself of constantly and you live off of? Why do you think you're so up and down? Why are you worried about who likes me? Who notices me? Who's not noticing me? How do I measure up to the other people in my life? That's why you're up and down all the time. That's why you're clinging to life rafts and life rafts pitch up and down. Here's bedrock. walk on? How is it that the Christians could walk off singing to the lions? You know how? The people of the world can't understand it because the people of the world know that they've got about 80 years here and I've got to get every bit of my fulfillment and satisfaction and joy and comfort out of this life. And they can't understand people who are suffering and singing because if anything comes and disrupts their life, well, this is all they But what does Paul say? Paul says the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared to the glory that shall be revealed in us. You see, what Paul does is what you ought to be doing. He looks around and he says, I'm going to think out, I'm going to reckon, I'm going to account for, I'm going to think out the glory of my sonship. I'm going to think it out until I remember. I've got a Father in Heaven who's in charge of history, who tells me that he's got history all working out for my best. I've got a Father in Heaven who will guide me, who will accept me, who loves me. He lets the glory of his sonship overwhelm him and overshadow him until he's got a comfort that can match anything. What do you do when you get depressed? Do you jog? That's all right, I do. Do you play the piano? That's fine. Do you go see a movie? That's temporary. Or do you think out the implications of your sonship? Conclusion? Somebody here is saying, you know, I came for some inspiration. And unless I miss my guess, I think what you just did was told me I'm a wicked, miserable sinner and I need to be changed from the inside out. That doesn't sound very inspiring to me. And I'll tell you why it's not. Because the Christianity doesn't inspire people like that. Christianity isn't a tranquilizer that knocks out your nerve center so you can't see how bad things are. Christianity doesn't minimize and say, well, in every cloud there's a silver lining, it can't get much worse. I'm sure there'll be an upturn in the stock market soon. Christianity doesn't say that. You probably won't lose your job. Is that what Christianity says? No, instead it says, for those who believe in his name, he gives you this power. That means those who believe Jesus is God, that he died and rose for you, and that you stand on the basis of that and say, Father, accept me because of what Jesus said. If you believe that, there's a comfort that will overcome everything. If you don't believe that, there's no comfort. So many of you are down on the ground and you're eating roots and grubs in the mud, and Jesus Christ has a feast ready for you at his table. Go to him. Friends, I'm going to pray. And when I'm done praying, I want the folks to come forward with the offering. You're going to hear a musical offering. The musical offering, by the way, is a joyful thing. And it ought to be joyful, because if there's anybody here who doesn't have the new life, or anybody here who's not living as a child of the king, it's joy that you're looking in the mouth and walking away from. There's no need to be sad. Realize it's joy that you're spurning. After I pray, we're going to hear the music. Write down any commitments that you want to make on that prayer card. Put it in the offering plate as it comes around, and then we'll close with our final hymn. Let's pray. Our Lord, now we ask that you would give us your new life. There's some people here who need to say, I believe in your name. I don't have feelings. I don't know how I'm going to go. I don't know the way, but please show me. Give me your life. And Father, there are people here who have received rights of sonship. They're sons and daughters, and they're not living on the basis of it. We pray that you will enable us to take hold of our rights and to live in accordance with them. We pray it in Jesus' name. Amen.