The way the rest of the service runs is like this. This is, as I said at the very beginning, a covenant renewal service. Now, in the Old Testament, over and over again, God called his people to come together and remember what he had already done in the past because there's a tendency for our hearts to forget. Redeemer in the beginning was a miracle, and we accomplish things in the beginning that were beyond our human ability to accomplish. But what happens in the life of a church is not very long before we start to only attempt to do things that are within our human ability to accomplish. And therefore, every so often, God told Israel, I'll read this later on and I'll show you what we're doing. God comes, I think, to a church or to any group of people that he has created by his power and grace, and he says, I want you to go back, and I want you to remember what you did in the past. I want you to kind of rub your heart's nose in the greatness of what I did in the beginning to get your heart filled with awareness of my power and grace, and then I want you to recommit to the original calling in a new way that assumes that I still am real, that I'm still a God who can do things beyond your ability, and that's what we're going to do. I'm going to preach a sermon right now, no big surprise, on the fact that God changes lives. Then afterwards, we're going to hear a series of testimonies of how God has changed lives, and then after that, we're taking up an offering, and the offering is a pledge or an estimate of giving to the capital fund drive that most of you have heard about. Essentially this. We decided that our original calling, the Redeemer's original calling, we've always known this, is that we don't want to just build a great church, we actually want to build a great city. We want to have an impact on all of New York City. We want to change so many lives with the gospel, and send them out into the city as servants, that the whole city is built up, socially and economically and spiritually and culturally, the whole city. And about a year ago, we began to realize that though that was our original vision, we needed to make a change if we were going to reach it. And we came up with a plan that said that Redeemer, instead of just going to one great big church, is going to actually divide itself into a series of churches. And we're going to start with a west side site, but we're going to have sites around the park, upper west side, west side, upper east side, east side. And we're going to start a school, or a center of urban missions, urban church development, and we're going to take what we've learned, and we're going to raise money, create training, so that we raise up hundreds of new leaders for hundreds of new churches that also spread the gospel, change people's lives in New York City and other cities of the world. Now, that, in order to do that, we're raising money for it. And the whole plan is audacious, the plan is incredible, but it's like the original Redeemer. The original idea, the idea of Redeemer was audacious and incredible, and it was beyond anybody's ability to foresee that it could happen, and so this plan is as well. What we're doing today is we're rubbing the nose of our heart, we're getting our hearts together, and we're saying through the Lord's Supper, through the testimonies, and we're saying, remember how great he is, remember what he did to begin with. Have we gotten to the place where we're afraid to attempt anything that big again? Yes. And therefore, we repent. And today, we send our church, not in a new direction, but with a new commitment, renewing our awareness of the reality of God's grace and power

to the original calling. Now, here's what I mean by details. In order to do that, we have to raise funds for both the multiple sites and for this new school. And most of you have gotten some idea about this, and what we did was, what we're going to do is we're going to have an offering. It's a special offering in which the cards, the estimates of giving, which are in your bulletins, or have been sent to you, you could put into the offering plate. Quickly, this capital fund is a three-year drive. Over three years, we're asking people to make commitments that you can do it once or you can do it periodically. We would like you to say, here's what I estimate. It's not a promise. It's not a covenant. It's certainly not a contract. You say, here's what I would like to give in over, and above my normal giving into this fund. Last month, pardon me, last week, we asked our leaders, the people who are leaders of small groups and ministries in the church, we asked, we gave them the opportunity to go first. And 98 of them, or 98 cards, I should say, 98 giving units, 98 cards came in over the last week. And the leaders, as an example to you all, as an encouragement to you all, pledged in those 98 cards $1.9 million. $1.9 million to the capital fund drive. As you know from what we've told you, we need five, five million or more. The first 2.5 million will go to the multiple sites and over and above that goes to the school, goes to the training center. And that's a reach. It's a big reach. It's beyond our ability, but that's what we're here for, to remember that God has done things in the past beyond our ability and to ask him to continue and to act as if he is the kind of God who will. So what we're gonna do after the testimonies, I'll get up and I will say something very, very brief, but then we will go right from the testimonies into the offering and into the Lord's Supper. And that's how we're gonna be renewing our covenant, renewing our vision today. Okay? Let me read you this passage though, that I'm gonna look at more briefly than usual. It's a shame, because on a day like this, I've actually reflected more on this passage than usual, and I know more about this passage than usual. And I have a lot of time, I have less time than usual, but let's look at it. This is the story that Luke gives us of how Paul planted a new church in an urban center, Philippi, the largest church of the region. And this is what we read. Luke took out three conversion stories, three stories of changed lives in that original ministry from which that great church came. You know, the Philippian letter, the letter of Paul to the Philippians, it was the only letter to any church that we have, in which Paul does not criticize, in which Paul does not confront. In other words, of all the churches that we know of, that Paul planted, it was the healthiest, it was the strongest, it was one of the greatest. Now let me read you this. Acts 16, 13 to 34. On the Sabbath, we went outside the city gate to the river where we expected to find a place of prayer. We sat down and began to speak to the women who had gathered there. And one of those listening was a woman named Lydia, a dealer in purple cloth, from the city of Thyatira, who was a worshiper of God. The Lord opened her heart to respond to Paul's message. And when she and the members of her household were baptized, she invited us to her home. If you consider me a believer in the Lord, she said, come and stay at my house. And she persuaded us. Once when we were going to the place of prayer, we were met by a slave girl who had a spirit by which she predicted the future. She earned a great deal of money for her owners by fortune telling. This girl followed Paul and the rest of us, shouting, these men are servants of the Most High God who are telling you the way to be saved. She kept this up for many days. Finally, Paul became so troubled that he turned around and said to the spirit, in the name of Jesus Christ, I command you to come out of her. At that moment, the spirit left her. When the owners of the slave girl realized that their hope of making money was gone, they seized Paul and Silas and dragged them into the marketplace to face the authorities. They brought them before the magistrates and said, these men are Jews who are throwing our city into an uproar by advocating customs unlawful for us Romans to accept or practice. And the crowd joined in the attack against Paul and Silas, and the magistrates ordered them to be stripped and beaten. And they had, after they'd been severely flogged, they were thrown into prison. And the jailer was commanded to guard them carefully. Upon receiving such orders, he put them in the inner cell and fastened their feet in the stocks. About midnight, Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns to God, and the other prisoners were listening to them. And suddenly there was such a violent earthquake that the foundations of the prison were shaken. At once all the prison doors flew open and everybody's chains became loose. The jailer woke up, and when he saw the prison doors open, he drew his sword and was about to kill himself because he thought the prisoners had escaped. But Paul shouted, don't harm yourself, we're all here. The jailer called for lights, rushed in and fell trembling before Paul and Silas, and he brought them out and asked, sirs, what must I do to be saved? They replied, believe in the Lord Jesus and you will be saved, you and your household. They then spoke the word of the Lord to him and to all others in his house. At that hour of the night, the jailer took them and washed their wounds. Then immediately he and all his family were baptized. The jailer brought them into his house and set a meal before them. He was filled with joy because he had come to believe in God, he and his whole family. This is God's word. Why did Luke give us these three? I'll get back to that at the very end. But here's what we find. First of all, three absolutely different persons. Three absolutely different people. First of all, let's look at them racially. Lydia, we're told, was from Thyatira. And Thyatira was a city in Asia Minor in Turkey, and therefore, even though Philippi was in Europe, Lydia was Asian. Lydia was Asian. The Greek, the little slave girl was almost for sure a native Greek. And the jailer would have been Roman because all the good civil service jobs were given to retired Roman soldiers. So you have an Asian, and you have a Greek, and you have a Roman. Racially. Okay, let's look at them economically. When it tells us that Lydia was from Thyatira, and yet she had a house in Philippi, the commentators know, and a lot of the historians know this, Lydia was an extremely wealthy woman and a very successful woman. She was a dealer in dyes, which was one way to be very wealthy. Thyatira was the center of that. And even though she was obviously a traveling business woman, she had made out well enough that she had a home in Philippi. Even though she couldn't have been a citizen or resident of Philippi, or she wouldn't have been said in the text to be from Thyatira. And if you want an idea, if you want an analogy to Lydia, she would be what you might call a kind of successful fashion CEO. A CEO in the fashion industry who's been so successful, she's got a home here on Fifth Avenue, she's got an apartment here, she's got a home in Palm Beach, and of course she has a home back in her native Paris. And that's the idea, you see. Lydia, a person of power and wealth and influence. Then when you get to the slave girl, you've got someone economically who's at the other end of the spectrum. Whereas Lydia is powerful, economically wealthy, the slave girl is utterly powerless, and she's economically exploited. She's a slave. And then when you get to, economically you get to the jailer, what you have is, you certainly don't have a man, his life wasn't anywhere near as successful as Lydia's. It wasn't nearly as much a mess as the slave girl's. He is a solid, blue collar, middle class, ex-GI, who lives in Queens probably. And so now really, what you have here, look you've got Lydia eating at Les Spinaz, living on Fifth Avenue. You've got the slave girl, analogous let's just say to one of the young, 14 year old prostitutes that you can see walking under the East River bridges at night. She's not eating at Les Spinaz. Her pimp who beats her up is bringing her a Big Mac when she gets hungry. And then you've got the guy in Queens and you know, drinking at his pub. These are people who never meet, never see each other. Utterly different worlds. Not just economically, not just racially. Okay? Rationally. Recently I was reading an interesting book about the different ways in which people learn and take in information and make decisions. And it talked about three approaches. Cognitive, intuitive, and concrete relational. And the cognitive is the kind of person that says I want arguments, I want discussion, I want reflection, I want a case, I want evidence. The cognitive. And the intuitive is a person that says I want evidence. I want experience. I want encounter. You see? I want feeling. And the concrete relational, which is most people, most people are not either the kind of academic cognitive person and they're not usually the artistic intuitive person. Most people say show me. You know, show me. You know, give it to me practically. And so you notice, see, Lydia needs and wants a discussion. She wants a study. She wants reflection. She wants evidence. And the slave girl needs a powerful spiritual emotional encounter. She can't even think straight. You can't have a discussion with her. And you know, the jailer is somebody who would be, jailer is like most people, absolutely impatient with arguing and rationality and all that. Impatient with it and also turned off by emotion. I mean, here's a guy who obviously wouldn't like Redeemer because, you know, the sermons would go on and on and all this arguing. But he wouldn't like a charismatic church, all that emotion. But he wouldn't like a high church, you know, all that aesthetic stuff. Come on, I'm just a plain joke. He wouldn't come to church at all. You know, you're not going to reach him. He doesn't want to talk. Show me something. Show me something concrete. Okay. And so you see, spiritually, they're utterly different too. Lydia is empty. Now, how do I know she's empty? Because Lydia has achieved something that even today is hard for a woman but back then was very hard for a woman. She'd achieved status and she'd achieved power, but we're told here she was a worshiper of God though she was a Gentile. Now, worshipers of God were Gentiles that had turned away from their pagan roots and they had begun to meet and listen to the Word of God. They'd begun to meet with Jews and they'd begun to listen to the Bible and they'd begun to seek the God of the Bible and try to obey the God of the Bible. Now, any Gentile who would leave their roots and start to do that clearly was experiencing some kind of emptiness. So she was seeking quietly, gently. She was a religious, moral person, pulled together, totally in control. But something's missing. Now, a slave girl is the opposite spiritually. She is utterly tormented. She is a girl utterly out of control. Now, one of the things that's most interesting about this is look what the text says about her. It says, once we were going to a place of prayer, we were met by a slave girl who had a spirit by which she predicted the future. That's not what the Greek text says. You're never going to find any translation that puts down exactly what the Greek text says because it wouldn't make much sense. It said, we met a girl with the spirit of a python. Yeah, a snake. We met a pythoness. In Delphi, in Greece, in Delphi, there was a famous ancient temple of Apollos where the oracle of Delphi lived and he could predict the future. And that ancient temple was guarded by a huge python. Now, in those days, whenever you came upon a person like this girl, who was manic, who talked wildly, who spoke in all kinds of crazy voices, sometimes very deep voices, sometimes very high shrieks, and who made all these predictions and all these declarations, whenever you found these people that seemed crazy and yet were constantly making predictions, the people at that time considered them, considered that person someone who had the spirit of a python. And of course, because of her strange and awful behavior, her parents had sold her into slavery and her owners used her. They let people come and ask her questions and then the response and they had to pay for it. But you see, when she started coming after Paul and Silas and she said, these are servants of the Most High. You see, now the reason it put shutters through, it would have given them shutters, and the reason it doesn't give you and me shutters is because they know their Bible and you and I don't. And in Isaiah 14, where we have an account of how one of the great angels became Satan, we have a place where Lucifer says, I will ascend. I will be as the Most High. See, the Most High is the envious resentful way in which the devil himself talks about God. And they realized that this young woman was in the grip of supernatural evil. She was in utter torment and yet she was coming after them. She was actually in a sense attracted to them. She's in utter torment, out of control. Spiritually, in a sense, in utter despair, incredible restlessness, tremendous turmoil, and then you get to the jailer and he absolutely has no interest, no spiritual interest, nothing wrong with his life. And you know, it's interesting that Lydia knows a lot about the God of the Bible through the Bible and this little girl knows a lot about the God of the Bible through her evil spirit. But the jailer knows nothing and cares nothing. And so they're in three spiritually different places. They're in three, they're totally different racially, rationally, spiritually, emotionally, everything. Every possible way. And yet God comes after them. But he comes after them in three completely different ways. Look what he does. First of all, he comes after Lydia through her mind. He comes after the slave girl with a direct assault on her heart. And he comes after the Philippian jailer by shocking him with a changed life. First of all, he comes after Lydia like this. Lydia was trying to understand the Bible. Paul shows up. They were praying and they were worshiping on the Sabbath. And we know the sort of things that Paul used to say when he would come to synagogue worship. And what he did was he came to her and he began to give a message. She knew, but she was confused. She knew that she was supposed to obey God. But she also knew that God, through Moses, just didn't give us the law. He also gave us the sacrifices. And she knew about the sacrificial system. She knew that somehow, if an animal was,

somehow, atonement could be made. Someone or something could substitute for us. And so even though we don't obey the law, somehow our sins can be forgiven. But it was all very vague, very, very confusing. You know, she tried paganism. Now she was trying morality. And we're told, what does it say there? It says, Paul came and spoke, and it says, the Lord opened her heart to respond. Now the trouble with that word respond, the word, the Greek word that's used there is the word proseko, which simply means to get it. That's what it says. God helped her get it. Paul came and said something like this, Lydia, every prophet, every priest, every king, every hero, every mighty warrior, every suffering servant, and every slain lamb is Jesus. Jesus has come and lived the life you should have lived and died the death you should have died. He has fulfilled the law. And guess what happened? Lydia got it. And her emptiness was over. What had God given her? A Bible discussion, you know? Arguments, evidence, you see, a Bible study, a gentle thing, you see, a seminar. God gave her a seminar. And she got it. Now comes the slave girl. You notice Paul doesn't say, well, let's sit down and study the Bible. Because she's wild, she's coming after them, she's shrieking and she's saying, she's saying, these are the servants of the Most High who are showing you the way of salvation. And what's so intriguing about this, oh, there's so much intriguing here. First of all, one of the things that's fascinating is Lydia did not know. She didn't know. She didn't know much about the Gospel at all. Lydia thought you have to obey the, you know, the way you worship God. She obeyed the Bible. She was just trying to be a good person. But the slave girl understands that there is a way of salvation. Now, listen, evil will always make you an idiot savant. When you, the more you get sucked into evil, the more you get sucked, the more your life gets broken, in some ways you get more insight than the namby-pamby nice people. The namby-pamby nice people have a sentimental view of things. They don't understand a lot of reality. They don't understand that there's either God and there's either grace or there's nothing, there's no despair. And on the one hand, the more you get sucked into evil and brokenness, on the one hand, the more understanding you've got. The more you understand the truth, but in other ways, the less you understand the truth. This girl understood the Gospel mentally. She knew that there was a way of salvation. She knew that Jesus Christ was the way of salvation, but she hated him. And here's the reason why. She was enslaved on the inside to a bad master that made her a slave on the outside to bad masters. And what Paul does is he turns around, he doesn't have a Bible study. Instead, he says, he confronts the bad master who she saw as very glorious and very great. She was enslaved to him. She understood that there was the Gospel, but she, he comes and he says to the bad master, you are not glorious, you're not more glorious than Jesus, you're not stronger than Jesus. Jesus' name is the strong name. Jesus' name is the glorious name. And he confronts the false master, and he confronts the girl, and by the power of the Spirit, she sees Jesus as the glorious one. She sees Jesus as the great one. She sees Jesus as the only true master, and his, whoever it is, his power over her is utterly broken, and she's released. Like that. This very hour. A power encounter. Directly to the heart. Look how your heart, he says, look how your heart finds this one so glorious, but he's nothing compared to the glorious one, Jesus Christ, the righteous, the fairest among ten thousand. Look at him. Power encounter. Not a sweet little seminar over tea. Power. But now thirdly, the jailer. And the jailer, of course, isn't going to have, you know, jailer's not going to, the jailer doesn't care. And you notice what's very interesting is both Lydia and the slave girl, in a sense, gave Paul the possibility of actually being evangelists. But the jailer doesn't. However, the jailer is reached, and here's how he's reached. What does the jailer get? First of all, we have to realize something that you probably don't notice. When the slave girl owners realize that their income was over, what they do is they, they actually incite a racist riot. If you look carefully, what do they say? These Jews are doing things that us Romans, we Romans shouldn't do. And next thing you know, there's a riot, and they're beating them, and they bring them to the prison, and though the jailer is told, take care of them, he tortures them. Now you say, what do you mean he tortures them? Well, you see, one of the problems is we don't know, when we think of, what do you think of when you think of stocks? When you think of stocks, you think of what? You know, New England towns, and people with their heads and their feet, and all that sort of stuff. No. They were, even though he was not told to do it, he took them into the most inner cell, and he put their feet in stocks. Now I want you to know, when you put your feet in stocks, it was a form of torture, because the one hole for the one ankle, and the other hole for the other ankle, were like this. Way, way far apart, you, you act, basically force the legs open to the place of pain, and you lock them in there, and the legs just kept, the muscles would cramp on you, and it was a form of torture. Why did he do that? He wasn't told to torture them. Well, he probably was a racist too. He's a former Roman soldier, and he was a brutal man. He wanted to ingratiate himself to his supervisors, who knows, but he, you know, he tortures them. And God confronts them with two things. First of all, the Roman jailer sees men singing songs in the night. They're singing, and they're praising. Now here's something that he's never seen in his whole life. He has never seen anybody with joy so deep that they can sing and praise their God in torture. He's never seen that. You see, where does your joy come from? Well, it comes from health. Well, you take their health away. There's no joy. It comes from success. You take the success away. There's no joy. It comes from goals. You take their goals away. There's no joy. Life, you take their life away. You say you're gonna die, and there's no joy. Love, you take love away, and there's no joy. But what's going on? I've taken everything away. I mean, these people are in torture. They may be dead tomorrow, and they're singing. He's never seen anybody with joy so deep that no circumstance can get to it. But then the most astonishing thing is when the earthquake happens. It was the law of the land that if a soldier had a prisoner escape that was in his care, his life was forfeit. And, uh, he had tortured these guys. And when he realized that the chains would have been off and everybody was out, he was astounded to find that in spite of the torture, Paul and Silas had upheld the law and kept the prisoners in there. In other words, they'd overcome evil with good. They had his life in their hands, whereas before he had their life in his hands, and instead of doing tit for tat in an emergency, they gave him practical kindness. And what is he doing? Here's the most amazing thing. This man who doesn't care about arguments, this man who doesn't care about experience or feeling, this man who says, all I want to know, I'm a concrete guy, I just want to see how to live life concretely, rushes in because she suddenly realizes he has nothing as concrete as they have. He's never seen a joy like this. He's never seen anything like this. Now, here's what's so amazing. As different as they are, and as different as God's approach is to them, they've all came to the same purpose. They've all come to the same person. And who is that? They've come to Jesus Christ. Why? Here's the thing you've got to see. Superficially, they look different, but underneath, they're the same. They're all slaves. Oh, yes. You know why the jailer was about to kill himself? You say, well, because his life was forfeit. Sure. If you read through the Bible, you'll see a number of places where Roman soldiers realized their prisoners were about to go. They didn't kill themselves. They knew that some of them ran away, and they got executed. Some of them waited for the execution. Why was he killing himself? Because he was a slave to death. He was a slave to duty. Listen. When he realized the one thing that gave him any self-worth was gone, he had nothing to live for. He was a slave, not to a demon. He was a slave to duty. And Lydia was a slave because she probably said, when I get power, when I get influence, when I get all these things, then I'll be happy. But she was empty. Listen. If you're a slave, pardon me, I should put it this way. The Bible teaches us that you're either a slave to Christ or you're a slave to something. Because you have to live for something. And any master but Jesus, if you get him, if you get them, if you get it, if you're living for wealth and you get wealth, there'll be a slow despair because there'll be emptiness. And on the other hand, if you lose, if you fail your false master, like living, in this case, the Philippian jailer for duty, if you fail the master, you want to kill yourself. But the reason that Paul and Silas were able to sing songs in the night and the reason they were able to overcome evil with good was because they had the only master that forgives if you fail him and utterly, utterly satisfies you with his beauty and love if you get him. You thought the slave girl was the slave. They were all slaves and they were all only freed with the gospel. Now, I have to stop because we have other things to do. But here's what I'd like to show you. Number one, the gospel is a power. It is not a function. It's a divine power. It's not a function of culture. It's not a function of race. It's not a function of ethnicity. It's not a function of class. It's not a function of crisis. Do you see that? It's not for people who are in crisis. It's also for people who have no crises at all. It's not for this nationality or that nationality. It's for all nationalities. It's not for the rich. It's not for the poor. It's not for the middle classes. It's for all of them. It's not for the ambitious. It's not for the wimps. It's for both. The gospel is a divine power because there's no such thing as a religious type. So, we can Christian friends, when you look at anybody in your life and you say, that person would never become a Christian, you're forgetting. You're violating the very principle that brought you to faith. Secondly, the gospel is the greatest thing in the world to bring people together. In New York City, the people that eat Les Benaz, the people who get their pimps giving them Big Macs under the East River bridges, and the people who are drinking at pubs in Queens, never, ever, ever get together. And if they do get together, they despise each other. And yet, these three people became leaders in the church. And not only that, with St. Paul. St. Paul was a dead white Jewish man. And we know this, about that time, that when a Jewish white head of family would get up in the morning, he would pray a prayer. And what was that prayer? He would say, O Lord, I thank Thee. That I'm not a what? Thank You I wasn't born what? A woman, a slave, or a Gentile. And the people who Paul, from birth, had been taught to despise, and who all had been taught to despise each other, now are brothers and sisters. The power of the gospel. Christian friends, do you want to be used in God's, in people's lives? It's very simple. Check out your own idols. Because unless you can sing songs in the night, unless you can sing songs in the night, and unless you are so free from false masters, that you can love other people, and do good to them no matter what, you're never going to really have an impact on them. And also, that's the first thing. The second thing is, make sure you're flexible. It's alright to memorize a gospel outline, but don't you see people need utterly different things? Some people need encounter, some people need process. You've got to be willing, willing to see that God will come after people for anything. On the other hand, if you're not a Christian today, or you're not sure if you're a Christian, here's my suggestion to you. Look at your life. You say, I'm not a slave. Oh no? Are you bored? Are you becoming empty because you're getting the things you're living for, and they're not coming, they're not fulfilling you? Or are you despondent? If you're despondent, if you can't face suffering, it's because something is so important to you, and you're a slave to it. If you're ready to kill yourself, listen, I have all the sympathy in the world for you, but if you're ready to kill yourself, it's because something that you have given yourself to, you see, you have failed it, and it's your fault. It's your fault. It's not, you're not a victim. You're a slave. You've made yourself a slave. And if you're exploited by other people like the slave girl, if you've got other people continually exploiting you economically, personally, physically, if you've got people and you say, I don't seem to know how to stop this, it's because something on the inside is exploiting you. You need Jesus Christ. The only master who, if you get him, will fulfill you, and if you don't get him, he will forgive you. Come to him. Pray with me for a second. Father, as we listen to these testimonies of changed lives, we ask that you would help us to see, as Luke has brought us a series of changed lives, how important it is for us, how absolutely critical it is, for us to remember your power. We thank you that through the gospel, anyone can become a brother or sister, anyone can be healed, anyone can be held together and pulled together, anyone at all. Forgive us for forgetting that. Forgive us for not having our own idols under control enough for us to be channels of your grace to see other people changed. Forgive us for doubting that. And now we pray, Lord, as we hear these testimonies, great testimonies of how you have come into their lives, and how you have created Redeemer as a place where changed lives can go, can happen, we pray that you would renew our commitment to be venues and channels for your grace in the life of others, as Paul was, as Silas was. Make us as flexible as they were, make us as loving as they were. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
