Philippians 2, 1-5

If you have any encouragement from being united with Christ, if any comfort from his love, if any fellowship with the Spirit, if any tenderness and compassion, then make my joy complete by being like-minded, having the same love, being one in spirit and purpose. Do nothing out of selfish ambition or vain conceit, but in humility consider others better than yourselves. Each of you should look not only to your own interests, but also to the interests of others. Your attitude should be the same as that of Christ Jesus. This is God's word.

Now, you know, at the end of the 80s, when the Berlin Wall came down and communism crumbled, at least European communism crumbled, there was a giddy period of time in which some people announced, what they called the end of history. A number of people actually said, very intelligent people, said, guess what? This is the end of conflict. It's the end of war. Democracy won over totalitarianism. And because the Cold War was over and the threat of nuclear holocaust was pretty much over, a lot of people said, we're coming into a whole new realm, a new world order, it was called, a time in which the big conflicts are over. We might have petty skirmishes. And, in the last six years, our hopes have been absolutely dashed because as the big battle between the two great superpowers and all the people we held under control, as the power of those two great superpowers diminished, what actually happened was very, very long-standing historical hatreds and hostilities between people groups, between nations, between races, that had been obviously there for years and we thought they were gone. They've just, they've just erupted. And there has been no end to fighting. We're here to talk today about fighting. Why human beings fight. How they fight. What we're supposed to do about it. Fighting. The passage I just read says, be of one mind, be of one spirit. Now, it is absolutely critical for us to understand that this passage is teaching us and is telling us the answer to one of the problems, that, boy, here's, we could get a consensus across the spectrum of religions and philosophies and ideologies. Human beings fight. Human beings hurt each other. Human beings kill each other. Human beings can't get along. Why not? What can we do about it? This passage tells us about it. You know, one of the things that's most interesting and most deceptive about the whole problem of fighting is that if you're on the outside of a conflict, the conflict looks simple. The solution looks simple. If you're on the outside, it looks extremely simple. You say, well, come on. See, if you're not of either ethnic group and you see two ethnic groups fighting, you say, it's easy to see how to get out of this. The pain and suffering is just far greater than the issues. It's easy. Just admit this. Just stop doing this. You know, here's Bosnia, you know, the Bosnian Muslims and the Serbians. And if you're neither, if you're from the outside, you look and you say, what's going on? Forget that battle that happened 500 years ago. You know, get over it. You know? It's easy. If you have two friends, say two married partners or marriage partners or business partners, and they're at each other and they're after each other and they're harming each other, it's so easy from the outside if you're neither of the partners.

If you've never been in that situation, from the outside, it's always easy. You say, well, just stop. Just admit this and give in here and stop this and come on. Looks so simple. But from the inside, the people say, it's not that simple. You don't understand. Something is, I can't just give in. I can't just walk away. I can't just give up. We're trapped. There's a, in fact, there's even, there's an old Star Trek, an old Star Trek, one of the old Star Trek TV episodes about this, which is really cute and makes the point perfectly. The reason I thought about it recently, is one of the characters was played by Frank Gorshin, who played the Riddler on the old Batman TV series. I was thinking about it lately with the new Batman coming out. Isn't that interesting how a preacher's mind works? It's fascinating how it works around. But in this old Star Trek, in this old Star Trek, there were two aliens that they meet on their starship voyages. And these two aliens are half black and half white. Did anybody remember this? Right down the center, they're black on the one side and white on the other side, and they hate each other. And they represent two people groups. And they're at war with each other. And of course, Kirk and Spock, and they're trying to show them, hey now, come on, we can get along. They make all these moral appeals. You don't understand. These people have done this. And at one point, and this is what I thought was kind of ingenious, at one point, they look at them and they say, why are you so mad at each other? After all, you're the same species. And Frank Gorshin says, what? What do you mean? Well, look, you're both half black, half white. Why are you fighting? And Frank Gorshin, you remember, he looks and says, Captain, I am black on the right side. He is black on the left side. I am black on the right side and white on the left side. He is black on the left side and white on the right side. I mean, it's so obvious. This is so obvious as a subhuman person here. And the point is, if you are outside, if you are neither party, if you are neither racial group, if you see parents after kids and you've never been a parent, if you see husbands after wives and you've never been a husband or a wife, never been married, if you see from the outside, the solution seems easy, from the inside, you feel utterly trapped.

Now, because it looks so easy from the outside, anybody on the outside of a conflict has a sense of superiority over the people inside. Always do. And they have a tendency to say just what I'm showing you, and that is, it looks like a bunch of people. It looks easy. Come on. And this has led people over the years to say that the solution to fighting is education. When you look at a fight from the outside, it says this shouldn't be that hard. These people are just stupid. We need to educate people. We need to appeal to people. You remember some years ago there was an ad campaign. They had little babies of different races all together. And underneath it said, no one is born a bigot. Remember that? Nobody is born a bigot. Now, what's that teaching? That is teaching that the fighting comes from the outside, bad models. It comes from ignorance. The problem with the human fighting and conflict, it comes from the outside. If we give people good models, if we give people good education, nonsense. We have been trying education for thousands of years. Even the Greek philosophers made these appeals. Why can't we just live it together? Why can't we just start loving each other? Don't you see that the pain and the suffering is far greater than the issues that you're fighting? Education hasn't worked. And therefore, the real root can't be ignorance. Don't you see? It can't be a problem from the outside. It can't just be a lack of good models. And the Bible says it comes from the inside. There is a problem. There is a disease. This disease is the disease. We've all got to figure out something. We have to cure it. The Bible says you'll never treat the disease. I'm telling you, you'll never treat it. unless you understand its source. If you're going to treat a disease, you have to not only do description, but prescription. You've got to do not only diagnosis, but remedy. And you won't have the right remedy if you don't do the right diagnosis.

The Bible tells us what the real roots of human fighting are, and then what the remedy is. So let's take a look at the diagnosis and then the remedy in this passage. First of all, the diagnosis. Diagnosis. Why do people fight? Why do we get after each other? And let me point out that there's two words. Great day so far. There's two words in verse 3 that show you the contrast to the unity that Paul is trying to get out of the Philippians. You see in verse 1 and 2, he says, Be like-minded, have the same love. And verse 3 is the contrast. So here we have the essence of what causes fighting. Do nothing out of selfish ambition, or vain conceit. Selfish ambition or vain conceit. What's that? These two words, if you have any other translation, if you have five other translations, you're going to find ten words. Different words. Because every translation translates these words differently. Why? Because they're rich words. They're hard to translate. They need to be looked at. They bear reflection. They bear reflection. And my proposal is, my proposal to you is that the order is even important. That the first word tells us the pattern of behavior that leads to human fighting, but the second word shows you the motive or even the cause of that behavior. The first word is, in a sense, the symptoms. The second is the root. The first word is the pattern. The second is the motive. First of all, it says, do nothing out of selfish ambition. Now, that's not a terribly great translation, I don't think. It's a single Greek word, which means, believe it or not, hyper-fighting. It means hyper-fighting. It means, I think a better translation is a spirit of rivalry. Hyper-fighting means it's okay, it's one thing, to fight in order to live. But this is a spirit that lives to fight. There's a big difference between fighting to live and living to fight. A spirit of rivalry, a spirit of hyper-fighting, tells us that this is a spirit that is governed not by truth or reason or thought,

but by prejudice. Okay, this is going to take me about 90 seconds to say this over and over again a few times so it gets real clear, alright? I've been thinking about this for the last couple of days. What governs your relationship to people? It can either be your needs, or the truth. You can either come to understand the truth through your needs, or you can understand your needs through the truth. If the truth governs your needs, then you can have a decent discussion with somebody. If you say, okay, I have my needs, and you have your needs, but let's see what the truth says. Let's be reasonable, let's think about it. But if you let your needs govern your understanding of the truth, if you let your needs be the bottom line, not the truth, if you let your needs govern your understanding of the truth, rather than the truth governing your understanding of your needs,

then you're a hyper-fighter. In other words, you're a person who says, by definition, I'm right because it's me. By definition, my needs are right because they're my needs. By definition, my group is right because it's my group. You're going to have fighting then. By definition, that's prejudice. This is a spirit that refuses to let thought or reason be the thing that guides your relationships. Let me put it one more way, which I think is the most practical way to talk about it. This is the spirit that makes you take things personally. This is the spirit that makes every discussion about you not about an issue, not about a truth. Do you see that? There's a spectrum here, friends. And some people are way down here with this spirit, this selfish ambition, this spirit of rivalry, and some people are better, but we've all got it. The spirit of rivalry is that which makes it impossible for you to think about the issue in front of you. Instead, you think about what this is doing to my pride, what this is doing to my relationship, what this is doing to my reputation, my standing, how it makes me look.

Most of us, we use the term personality clash. We say, well, you know, ostensibly this discussion in our office is a debate between this person and that person over this issue, but the fact is they hate each other. They'll find anything to argue about. That's what Paul's talking about here. There's a pattern of behavior, the spirit of rivalry, that makes you take everything personally. So instead of being governed by thought or reason, you see, the person on the outside of conflict, you say, let's be reasonable. Come on, forget about that battle, forget about that thing. Just give in here, just give up on that. But on the inside, you see, it's not about reason, it's not about truth, it's not about those issues, it's really not a matter of content. It's personal. This has to do with me. And Paul is saying that is the pattern of behavior that creates all this strife. He says, do nothing out of selfish ambition. This is universal. You might say, well, I see people like that who take everything personally. I know about people like that. But you know who Paul's writing to? He's talking to the Philippians. He's talking to the church at Philippi. If you read all of the letters of Paul, you will see that this is the best of the churches. This is the only church that Paul is not talking to about all kinds of difficulties and problems. This is the only one in which he's not talking to them about heresies. This is clearly the healthiest church that he writes to. This is clearly the best church he's got. This is clearly his favorite church. He's so warm throughout this letter. And yet, Paul is telling us that the best people and the best churches will be utterly dominated by the spirit of rivalry unless they watch out for it all the time. You think, you see, you want to tell yourself and you tell other people, well, my problem is to do with principle, but it's not. There's something in us that says, the heck with principle. They're stepping on my toes. They're making me look bad. They're hurting my power.

And that is that. That's the thing which creates fighting. Taking everything personally. Unable to be governed by reason or truth. Now, you say, okay, fine. I know that there's a spirit of rivalry and it's in all of us to some degree. I know that there's a tendency for us all to be unwilling to judge ourselves or to look at ourselves. There's an unwillingness to... Therefore, we divide up into groups and we despise each other. The people with education despise the people without and the people without despise the people with. The people with looks despise the people without. The people without looks despise the people with. The people with education and so on and so on. Why? Because issues aren't important. Truth isn't important. You see, our face, our pride, you see, our reputation, that's the important thing in all these issues. And we can never get that out. We can never get our egos out of our discussion. You say, okay, I see that. But what's the root of it? What brings it about? And Paul says, he gives us a second word, and I think this is the root of it all. He says, do nothing out of selfish ambition or, he says, what's it say? Vain conceit. Now, that's close. That's not a bad translation. But, you know, the old authorized version, the old King James version of the Bible, says, has a different word. It's close, but it's different. He says, do nothing out of vain glory. Now, we don't use that word anymore, but I'm going to use it the rest of the sermon, and I'll show you why. The Greek word that Paul says, don't do anything out of this. Don't respond to this. It's the word kinodoxion.

The word doxa is the Greek word for glory. You know how we, every day, you know we sing the doxology. You know what the doxology is? It's the glory word. The doxa logos. It's the word of glory. It's when we say glory to God. That's dope doxology. Kinodoxion means a person empty of, starving for glory. He says, do nothing out of glory hunger. What's that mean? Okay.

Paul is saying and reminding us that human beings are hungry for glory. You know what the word glory means in the Bible? It means importance. It means to matter. It means weighty.

And this is telling us that fundamentally, the most deep response of our soul is that we sense that we don't care. We don't matter. We know and we are deeply afraid of not mattering. The worst thing for a human being is not to be hated. The worst thing for a human being is not to be opposed.

The worst thing for a human being is not to be vilified and called bad. The worst thing for a human being is to be ignored.

To not even matter. Act like who cares. The thing we most are afraid of, is that we have no glory. That we don't last. We are insignificant. We are overlooked. We don't matter. The thing the human soul is most afraid of is that we are unimportant, marginal, peripheral, and ephemeral. That's what we're most afraid of. And the Bible tells us, therefore, that every human heart, in its deepest recesses, is trying to manufacture a sense of glory. We feel like we're ephemeral. We want all the glory. We want to last. We feel like we're marginal. We want to be in the center. We feel like we're somehow cosmically small, so we act big. And if anybody treats us as small,

we go berserk. If anybody treats us as unimportant, we go ballistic. Because at a cosmic theological level, I'm going beneath the psychological, at a cosmic theological level, we're afraid that we are just will-o'-the-wisps. We're afraid that we're going to pass away. We're afraid that we're ghosts. We're afraid that we're nothing. We're afraid that we're waves on the sand, footprints right at the edge of the sand where the water's coming, we'll be gone, and nobody will ever remember us. We are so afraid of that we manufacture success and love and approval. We do all sorts of things to manufacture glory. We are kinodoxium. We are characterized by vainglory, starvation for glory. And if anybody suggests that we aren't important, if anybody snubs us, we go ballistic. It's not rational. From the outside, it looks crazy, but from the inside, we're driven. There's a fundamental instability in our hearts. We feel cosmically small. We feel cosmically insignificant. Small. And so we've got to convince ourselves that we matter. We've got to convince ourselves that we're somebody. And any situation that reminds us of this deep fear sets us off. Some of us explode. In some cases, it sort of eats like acid more slowly, but we can't stop ourselves. From the outside, it's easy. Why don't you just give up? From the inside, we can't stop. You see? I was reading while I was watching Star Trek.

Said this. I have an iron will, and all of my will has always been to conquer some horrible feeling of inadequacy. I'm always struggling with that fear. I push past one spell of it and discover myself as a special human being, and then I get to another stage and I think I'm mediocre and uninteresting, and I find a way to get myself out of that again and again. My drive in life is from the horrible fear of being mediocre. That's always been pushing me. Pushing me. Because even though I'm someone, even though I've become somebody, I still have to prove that I'm somebody. My struggle has never ended, and it probably never will. Look what she says. She's not afraid of being bad. She's not afraid of being bad. She says, my drive in life is from the horrible fear of being mediocre. What's that mean? Be ignored. To be faceless like everybody else. That is the ultimate horror of the human being. And the Bible says it's because we fear that we have no glory, we don't matter, we aren't lasting, we're ephemeral, and we're marginal. Well, somebody says, why? You know, somebody says, oh, that's Madonna. Her parents didn't love her. Would you do me a favor? Would you at least consider the possibility that very statement is a defense mechanism? It's always easy from the outside. But friends, people who have had as good a set of family relationships as you could possibly ask for, they know that maybe having a bad family, maybe having an unloving mother or father, that may aggravate this condition, but it's not the cause of it. Bad models, that can aggravate the condition, but it's not the cause of it. It's something much more fundamental, because education doesn't get rid of it.

Now, where does it come from? The Bible gives you a theological answer. The Bible says it comes from sin. You are starved for glory. You are trying to manufacture your own glory. You are afraid of ever being treated as non-glorious because of sin. Because sin has robbed you from the glory, and you're repressing it. We all are. Now, you say, what do I mean? All right, well, let me give you the mundane level before I give you the universal level. At the mundane level, the Bible tells us the essence of sin is self-centeredness. The essence of sin is wanting things your way. Now, what happens the more selfish you are, the more proud you are, the more self-absorbed you are, the more you want things your way and only your way? Look what happens. You know what happens? You become boring.

Go ahead. Always want things your way. Always talk about your issues. Always center everything on yourself. And you know what? Pretty soon you'll look around and there won't be anybody there. You know why? Because the more self-centered you are, the more selfish you are, the more you want things to revolve around you, the more sinful you are, the more boring you become, the more ignorable you get, the more forgettable you get. You know, Hannah Arendt talked about the banality of sin. The banality of evil, you know? You say, but I know some evil people who are very interesting. I'll tell you what makes them interesting. It's the remnants of the image of God and the common grace. It's the remnants of the good in that person that makes them interesting because pride is a yawn. And the bigger the pride, the bigger the yawn. And you ignore people like that. You can't help it. They're boring. The Bible tells us that when we were originally put here, we were put in the Garden of Eden, we were put before God, and we were built to know and serve God, not ourselves. And because we were not centered on ourselves but centered on God, we had glory. We were fascinating. We mattered to God and we mattered to each other. We had physical glory. We were beautiful. And we didn't die. We lasted. And we had spiritual. We could create beauty. Our souls were beautiful because they were characterized by love and by wisdom and by joy. You know? We were glorious. We were fascinating because we were centered on God, not on ourselves. But when we decided to be our own masters, when you decide only I and I alone have the right to determine what's right and wrong for me, I and I alone will decide how to live, when you did that, when we do that, when the human race did that,

we became, we disintegrated. We began to lose our glory. Physically, we became subject to death. And we know that the glory is gone. Why are we afraid of death? Why are we upset about death? Animals aren't. You know why? Because we long for the glory we had. We know we were built for glory and we know that we're passing away. We're decaying.

Why do artists get so much attention? They get so frustrated that their art's never good enough. Right? The music was great this morning. Probably the artists feel like it could have been better. Why? Animals don't get bothered by that. In fact, they don't even try to do art. Why?

We know the glory we had.

We long for what we want to be. We long for what we were. And we're desperately afraid that we don't matter anymore. That physically and spiritually and socially and emotionally and every way, we're will-o'-the-wisps. We're fog.

And you know what? The Bible tells us that unless we get out of our self-centeredness and get on to God-centeredness in this life, on the final day, what will God say to us? What does Jesus say in Matthew 7? He's going to say to people. He's going to say, I don't know you. I don't know you. You know what that means? It's the worst thing that can be said. It's the utter nightmare. Yet it's the logical thing that happens. And that is, we become eternally and utterly ignored. We become overlooked by the only eyes that count. We become eternally overlooked.

And you say, well, that's awful. What do you mean that's awful? You do it now. You do it to people now. The self-centered people, you overlook them. You say, I don't know you. I don't want to know you. I don't want to know you. You almost can't help it. It's the nature of things. And God does it at the end.

And here's the catch-22. The more we know that we lack glory, the more we try to manufacture more, the more peevish we get, you know, when people treat us as if we're not glorious. The smaller we feel we are, the bigger we act. And you know what the irony is? The more important you act, the less important you become. And the less important you become, the more important you have to act. And on until there's nothing left.

What's the remedy? My friends, I tell you something. Anything less profound than this, in terms of analysis, will not get to the heart of the disease. Oh, what's the remedy? What's wonderful, the remedy is actually seen in verse 5. The remedy says, let this mind be in you which also is in Christ Jesus. And that shows us that the remedy has to be multidimensional. The remedy has to be both inside and outside. Remember I said the problem with the educational model is, well, the reason people fight is they just aren't reasonable and we just have to train them when they're little because they got bad models. They came under the influence of bad models. Listen, good models help. Maybe Madonna's parents should have loved her. That would have helped. I mean, good models help, of course. Education helps, of course. Loving families help, of course. But it's not enough. Something has to happen. The Bible tells us that the remedy for this terrible disease

is multidimensional. We will never know peace unless some tremendous things happen. Something happens on the outside and on the inside. And verse 5 refers to both of them. First of all, verse 5 says something happened in Christ. Okay? First of all, let this mind be in you which was also in Christ Jesus. If you look carefully, you'll say something can happen inside you but only because something happened outside. There's an attitude in the mind you can have that gets rid, that kills the vain glory, that eats it away, that makes you no longer touchy, no longer starve for glory, no longer always feeling like cosmically small and therefore if anybody treats you as small. The way to get over that is first to see something happened outside. Now verse 5 points to verse 6 and following which wasn't printed here and we look at that actually next week. The five or six of you who will be here will hear an exposition of verse 6 to 11 next week. But here's, let me tell you what it says. What does it say? Jesus Christ emptied himself of his glory.

It says, though he was in the form of God, though he was in the very nature of God, though he had all the glory of God, he emptied himself and became human.

The Bible tells us that Jesus Christ embraced your worst nightmare. All the things you most hate, all the things you most fear, Jesus Christ voluntarily walked right in. Look, Isaiah 53, he had no beauty or majesty to attract us to him, nothing in his appearance that we should desire him. He was despised and rejected. He was rejected by men, a man of sorrows acquainted with grief, like one from whom men hid their face. He was despised and we esteemed him not. Jesus Christ first of all came as an ugly man. That's what we're told. He came as a poor man. He came as a weak man. And in the end he was utterly rejected. Not only by the people who ran away from him, but by his Father.

His Father said, I don't know you. My Father, my Father, my God, my God, he cried, why hast thou ignored me? In the cosmic way that we're all afraid of. The reason it creates a psychic earthquake in you is because deep down underneath it all, you know that's coming someday. You can't, it's an unconscious thing. But you know in your soul of soul, that if you center on yourself, you lose all your glory, and someday you are ignorable.

Jesus got the thing you're afraid of. Jesus took it. Jesus took what we deserved.

He emptied himself of his glory. He was glory emptied. He was despised. He was rejected.

You remember how I said we all feel, sin makes us feel cosmically small, there's that place in the rock opera Jesus Christ Superstar, where Pilate, I think it's a terrific song, where Pilate mockingly says, well where is this Jesus Christ? And he looks and says, so this is Jesus Christ. I am really quite surprised. You look so small. Not a king at all. He became small. Utterly small for you. Why? Well in John 17, before he's about to die, before he's about to be cosmically ignored, he looks up to the Father, and in John chapter 17 he says, Father, I want them to have the glory that I had with you before the world began. And there it is. He emptied himself of his glory so we could be filled. And you know what it means to become a Christian? It means to follow him. If you go to God and say, I'm as good as other people, why aren't you answering my prayers? You're claiming to have glory. If you claim to have glory, you'll get none. If you try to fill yourself, you'll be empty. But if you come empty, if you are willing to dig up that repressed traumatic material, you know, down deep inside, we all are afraid we're marginal. We are. We're all afraid we're unimportant. We are unimportant. We're afraid that we're just weighs on the sand and we don't last. We won't last. To be a Christian means to dredge all that up and look at God and say, it's true. I have no glory. I have no righteousness. I deserve to be cast off. And as soon as you say, I am marginal, God says, come in. As soon as you say, I am weightless, God says, now you count. It's only when you say, I have no righteousness of my own, that God will close you with the perfect righteousness of Christ. Because why did he get ignored on the cross? He got ignored in your place. He lived a life and died to death. He lived a life and died to death. He lived a life you should have lived and died to death you should have died.

So that you could be brought in.

Now my friends, that's what had to happen outside. Then it says, now have this mind in you, which is also in Christ Jesus. When you bring Jesus Christ into your life, you bring into your life a living argument. And that living argument is constantly telling you when you're about to get upset because somebody has treated you as small, Jesus Christ is a living argument that says, who cares what they think when I love you? Why are you trying to complete yourself by sucking glory out of the situation so they think you're dumb? Don't you see what I've done for you? Look at me dying on the cross for you. That shows how much you count. That shows how much value you've got. I would let nothing come between me and you. Isn't that enough for you? What's wrong with you? What's wrong with you? Don't you see? You're a bigger person than this. And you see, it's a living argument. You take this into yourself. You see, he became small. Not a king at all. For you, you'll be able to live like a big person, not a petty person. Not someone always upset by little things. And that's the reason why you can have this very balanced attitude. Notice what verse 4 says. It says, look not only to your own interest but also the interest of others. Look at that balance. It doesn't say on the one hand you only look to the interest of others. You never look out for yourself. But on the other hand, it says you mainly look out for others. That's not codependency and that's not selfishness. That's something else. You know why? Because the need to always give and always be a martyr and always sacrifice and never look after your own, that is a response to vain glory. It's your effort to convince yourself that you're important. But to be selfish and to say, well, I can't serve other people. I've got my own needs. That's also a response to glory emptiness.

Know that he has given you the glory

that he had with the Father before the world began. Take that in. Say the stars might fall from heaven, but I will outlast them. The mountains may be worn down to pebbles, I will outlast them. Their glory is nothing compared to mine. Can you say that to yourself? Can you let the logic of that catch fire?

Do you feel small? Jesus Christ became smaller so that you could live a big life, not a petty life. Stop being upset by your little snubs. Stop worrying about whether people have criticized you. Take criticism like a big person, because you are if you're in Christ. Be willing to overlook slights. Be willing to be the first one to put out a hand and say, let's make it right.

You can only be at peace and you can only overcome this greatest of human diseases if you see the mind that was in Christ Jesus. Let's pray. Father, we pray that you'll make us people who do know and love your Son and see what he did for us in such a way that we also can be of one mind and of one spirit. Would you make it possible for us to see he became so small, not a king at all, and therefore we don't have to be afraid and upset when people treat us poorly. We can be bigger than that. Let all this work in our hearts the right way. I know, Father, that there's, in a room as big as this, there's fights going on. And from the inside you feel trapped. You feel like you can't give in. You can't lose face. You can't give up. You can't make peace. But now I pray, Father, that the Gospel will have penetrated some hearts today in such a way that we see that, yes, we don't have to let this defeat us. Help us to overcome evil with good. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.