Let's look at this. The basic statement of these verses, and because we're looking at it in detail, it's easy to miss the forest for the trees, so let me lay it out quickly. This is saying that the real purpose of spiritual gifts is spiritual fruit. spiritual gifts apostle prophet evangelist pastor and teacher we've been saying every individual in the church getting ability to function as a minister ability to serve ability to do things the evangelist the pastor the teacher the prophet and the apostle are equipping every believer in the church to carry out ministry, but the point of the gifts of the Spirit, the point of all this ministry, is always character change. You see, the purpose of the gifts, it was He who gave some of the apostles to be prophets, to be evangelists, and some to be pastors and teachers. For what reason? Verse 12, that prepares God's people for works of service and builds them up. Why? Until we reach unity of the faith and in the knowledge of the Son of God and become mature, attaining to the whole measure of the fullness of Christ. Actually, Paul says it three different ways. First of all, he says the whole purpose of all this ministry, the whole purpose of being busy, of having our classes, of having all of our services, of having all of our jobs, the whole purpose of all of this ministry and all this giftedness and all this activity, The whole purpose of it is to attain the fullness of the stature of Christ in our lives. He says that very clearly. Then he says it negatively. See, in verse 14. So we will no longer be infants. Tossed back and forth by the waves. Blown here and there. He says it negatively. The whole purpose of all this ministry is to get into the place where we are no longer spiritual babes. No longer spiritually immature. But instead, we've reached the fullness of the stature of Christ. And then he says it again in verse 15 and 16. It says, instead, speaking the truth in love, we grow up into the head, see, verse 16. From him the whole body, joined and held together by every supporting ligament, grows and builds itself up in love, as each part does its work. There it is again. The purpose of every part doing its work, the purpose of all the ministry, the purpose of all the spiritual gifts is love, is to build us up into our head. Now, this is saying, this is saying, in no uncertain terms, it's wonderful to have a busy, busy beaver church. It's wonderful to have people with lots of gifts of worship and exhortation and teaching so we can have wonderful worship services and great music and good teaching and lots of things. It's great to have people with gifts so we can feed the hungry and so we can serve the handicapped and so we can do community service. It's wonderful to have gifts of teaching so we have lots and lots of little classes and fellowship groups, and Bible studies. That's wonderful. It's great to have a busy beaver church, isn't it? But the purpose of it, and the way you know that you really are reaching the end for which all these busyness beaver things are the means, is if people are actually becoming like Christ, if there's real character change, if there's real spiritual development, if you're really looking more like Christ. This is very bottom-line-y. Are you less irritable than you were last year? Do you worry less? Are you more patient? Are you less proud and conceited? Do you have more of a servant heart? Are you a better listener?

Are you more honest than you were last year? Well, then what's all the busyness? Where's it getting you? That's what Paul's saying. He says, what is all this for? It's so we can attain to the unity of the faith and the knowledge of the Son of God

whole fullness, the measure of the fullness of Christ. And it's one of the reasons why I have a lot of trouble really taking, you might say, hard sides in the controversy of the issues we talked about last week. And since a lot of you weren't here last week, and also since, for some reason, we had such a great attendance last Sunday night that we ran out of, about a hundred of you didn't get any handouts, you'll see in the first part of your handout, and this is material that I'm on tonight because we really don't have time, I gave you a review of the things that we talked about last week, figuring that some of you would be interested in the review. Some of you who weren't here could take it home and read it. These are the so-called charismatic gifts. There's a lot of controversy about them. Some churches say these are very, very important, and the charismatic gifts are tongues and interpretation and receiving messages from God and miracles and healing. And I try to put down on here some positions. I know that in some ways what I think the Bible teaches, my own understanding of what the Bible teaches kind of moves itself between extremes. And some of you, if you're extreme, may hate everything I've put down here. If you're extremely, if you press the idea and say, yes, the miraculous gifts, the extraordinary gifts, these things have to be present in every service to have a great church. And if you're very anti-charismatic and you say these things are gone, they're done, we don't have anything to do with them anymore, we shouldn't have them, they're very bad, they're a sign of emotional maturity and stability. If you're very anti-charismatic, you might not particularly like what's down on the sheet. I'm not going to go back into it other than to say, instead of worrying about whether the gift should be there or not, what we ought to be looking at is, what is the result? What is the result? That's what That's what Paul's saying here. Does it issue? Does your particular view of the gifts, does your particular use of the gifts issue in that character change? Are you growing up into the fullness of the stature of Christ? Are you changing? Are you any different than you were? See, that's the bottom line. And for a minute, I'm not going to argue with you about whether the way in which you use tongues or not use tongues, That's biblically valid at this point. I'm going to ask the question is, are you growing? Do you really see the change? I mean, there should be a major, there should be a big difference between, if you've been a Christian for three years, there should be big differences in your life. Big ones, major strides. Is it happening? You see the attitude? Gifts is a means to an end. That's the reason why on this first page, at least I'll refer to the one thing. The healing, the healing issue. Lots of folks have talked to me a great deal about, do you still believe in healing today? Well, I don't know how you get out of believing in healing today. You know, James 5 commands us. It doesn't just describe, but it commands. It says, when someone in our midst is sick, we should call for the elders. We should lay hands on that person. We should pray for healing. God can hear the prayer and answer the prayer, raise the person up. It's there. Of course we believe in that. And of course, we've seen God answer prayers for healing in great ways. And yet, here's the balance that has to be struck. One of my heroes, George Whitefield, a great evangelist in the 1740s, both in England and Europe and in America, he saw unbelievable fruit. There was a period of his life in which God was honoring his particular ministry of preaching. He did open-air preaching. preaching. He did open-air preaching on Wall Street. Now, there wasn't...you've got to remember, Wall Street back then was a wall. There was a street, then there was a wall, and then there was nothing but Indians and field. And he was trying to preach a Trinity church downtown, and they wouldn't let him in. And this is 1740, by the way. And he had to go across the Wall Street and preach in the fields. And he still got 7,000 people to come hear him. No advertising. evangelizing. He had an amazing anointing of the Spirit of God on him. And it was not unusual for him to see one, two, three, or four, five hundred people converted after a single afternoon of preaching. And yet some people wrote him once and they said, you know, George, we're just really sorry that you don't have the complete Spirit-filledness in your life. And George, actually, he got this letter from his old prayer meeting, the Federlane Society, which was a Moravian society of believers who met for prayer at Federlane, of course, in London. And they wrote him once and they said, we're really praying for God's special blessing on you because there's no healings going on, at least not many healings that we hear of going on in your ministry. And we really want God's power to come down on you in a real way. So what did Whitfield write back? Now, he could have been pretty arrogant. And he was a young man then, and some of the things he did were arrogant. But he could have written back and said, you know, come on, folks, look at how God's blessing me. Don't tell me, I mean, if the blessing got any worse, any bigger, I don't know what in the world we'd do with it. Instead, he wrote back something like that. And the words are here, and I've quoted them before, but it gets across the point of Ephesians 4, 11 to 16. It's in the italics in the middle of that bottom paragraph on the first page. When somebody said, you've got to have more healings, George. Now, George, of course, was not against healings, and my guess is he saw some good ones in response to prayer. But, he says, Alas, what need is there of miracles such as healing sick bodies and restoring sight to blind eyes when we see greater miracles done every day by the power of God's Word? Do not the spiritually blind now see? Are not the spiritually dead now raised and the leprous souls now cleansed? Have not the poor the gospel preached to them? And if we have the thing already, which such miracles were only intended to introduce, why should we tempt God in requiring further signs? See, he got it right. He says the point of miracles and the point of healing and the point of spiritual gifts and the point of busy beaverness, the point is to get people's lives changed in a radical way. And he says when that's happening, and we see major character change, people turned around inexplicably, folks around saying, I don't know how that person who's so unstable became stable, so unloving became loving, so impatient became patient, faithful became faithful. So depressed became joyful. So troubled became peaceful. I don't understand how it happened, but it did. That is the point. And Whitefield says, everything else is a means to that end. And he said, how dare you come on back and say, well, you know, if you really are going to be spiritual, you should have all these gifts going on. Paul says, look at yourself. Look at the fruit. Is there that fullness of the stature of Christ growing? Is it You know, Paul says it the same way, actually, in 1 Corinthians 13. He makes this long list and he says, if I speak in the tongues of men and of angels, and if I have prophecy, if I know all the mysteries, he says, if I give away to the poor, if I give my body to be burned. Makes this very interesting list. He says, if I pray in tongues, he says, if I prophesy, if I know the Bible inside out, I'm giving my money away, and I'm even dying for my faith. He says, and I don't have love, I'm nothing. What's that mean? It's very simple. It actually can mean two things. The great Jonathan Edwards wrote a book on 1 Corinthians 13. He called it Charity and Its Fruits. Thinking about love. And he says, what Paul is saying here, first of all, is that if you look at the busyness, if you look at gifts, if you look at tongues and prophecy, if you look at people dying for their faith, lots of teaching, lots of Bible knowledge. He says, it's scary, but it's possible for all of those things to be counterfeit. Every religion, by the way, has those things. Every religion can produce people who are very zealous, who are full of knowledge, who are giving lots of great teachings, people who are willing to die for their faith. And by the way, another thing, if you want to go all the way, is the tongue shows up in other religions too, not just in Christianity. The free vocalization. And what Paul is trying to say is, ultimately, your gifts, your busyness, your activity, does not, in the end, constitute a real unmistakable sign of God's grace working in your life. You've got people like Saul, and you've got people like Demas, and you've got people like Judas in the Bible, that were very active in ministry, but in the end were shown never to have really given their lives to God at all. See, it's possible to be very busy, very, very active, and not really be right with Him at all. be very busy, very active, and just be doing it out of ego, doing it out of self-aggrandizement, and in your own heart, you're not cultivating that relationship with God, nor any of that character growth at all, at all. Do you see how important this is? Now, here's, that's the first thing I wanted to say. Second thing I wanted to say. The first thing is, gifts, busyness, is only a means to an end. Never mistake the means for the end. Never. Second thing is, just to take a look at how this dynamic is supposed to work. Verse 11 says, let the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists, and the pastors and teachers build you up and equip you for service. And then you'll achieve the unity of the faith, knowledge in the Son of God, and mature manhood and fullness of the stature of Christ. Did you see that? He says, first of all, you've got these equippers who are going to build you up and let you use your gifts. So there's two things. If you're going to get into maturity, if you're going to get into the fullness of the stature of Christ, there's got to be two things going on. You do have to minister. You do. There are people who say, well, I just need to be built up. I just need to have somebody come and minister to me and build me up. I need input. And there are seasons for input. And some of you just need to stay put and listen and grow and heal because you've been through such hard times. The way in which someone grows spiritually is through input and output. You've got to let the apostles, prophets, evangelists, pastors, and teachers build you up, it says, and equip you for service. That means there's got to be input and output. A person who's not using their gifts and who's not... A person who's just coming to church and sitting and soaking, as we say, this sit and soak thing. A person who's coming and not doing, not helping, not ministering, not working, not putting out, but who's just taking in. It's like somebody who says, I want to be in great physical shape, but I don't want to do any exercise. You see, I just want to sit and eat all day and sleep all day. And I want to be as fit as a fiddle. And you look at that person, you say, can't be done. There's got to be a balance between the output. There's got to be a balance between the exercise, the burning of the calories, and the taking in of the calories. You got to burn them. Now, if you burn them and you're not taking any in, that's burnout, of course. and if you're taking them in and you're not burning anything up, that you'll become bloated. But there's got to be a balance. And you've got it right there in verse 12. Now, we've been talking about the need to use gifts. We've been talking about that for weeks. But this other part, let the apostles, the evangelists, the prophets, and the pastors and teachers build up the body. Now, what is that? Just give me a couple minutes here on this one. It means that every Christian is obligated To put yourself in a place where you are receiving this edification ministry, this up-building ministry. The apostles, we talked about this last week, and I'm afraid I can't go into all the biblical exposition to establish this right now. But we said last week that the ministry of the apostles was to bring new revelation from God. Paul, Peter, those men were absolutely aware that God was giving them revelation, and they wrote it down.

you can have the apostles minister to you is to read the Bible. And the evangelists and the prophets and the pastors and teachers, like me, are doing nothing but taking the apostolic revelation and laying it on your life in such a way as to build you up. It's really not the gifts of the prophets and the pastors and teachers, but it's the Bible itself that's got the ability to build you up. The up-building power is not in the ministers, but it's in the Bible itself. That's the reason why when God, when Paul of the Ephesian elders in Acts chapter 20. He says, I leave you, I commend to you the word of grace which is able to build you up. If you ever, well, sometimes us ministers get a lot of compliments and we feel like Stokowski felt. Have you heard that story once where Stokowski was conducting Beethoven's 7th or something like that and it was a tremendous performance, and when it was all over, the people were applauding like crazy. I don't know if this is an apocryphal story or not, but it could have been, knowing what little I know about him. And he made everybody sit down and stop applauding, and with tears in his eyes, he looked at it, and he says, you don't understand. It's not me. It's Beethoven. And you see, ultimately, he says, I can't compose. He says, it was Beethoven that built you up, not me. I just was a channel. It's a great problem that people have. The people, from what I can tell today, especially in our modern culture, and there's all sorts of things that make you prone to it, either worship ministers or have nothing to do with you. In other words, you either go off and you do your little thing and you run all around and you're not connected to any church and you're putting yourself under no particular leaders or else you find some leader or some minister or some teacher who you just lay yourself out for and you say, this is it, do it to me. You know, you idolize the person. And this is telling you that's not right. It's the Word of God that can build you up, and it's your job to put yourself in a place where a variety of people are ministering to you. You need to go into churches. You need to go into small groups. You need to be in ministries and in fellowships. You need to be in relationships where the Word of God is building you up. Now, how do you know if that's happening? You've got this great verse that is one of the most wonderful verses to break apart, 2 Timothy 3.16, us, and 17, where it tells us that all Scripture is inspired and profitable. It says for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, and for training in righteousness. Now, there you've got it. How do you know if you are in a church or in a fellowship or under ministries or involved with friends that are building you up? Those four things have got to be happening. Doctrine, and training in righteousness. Now, look at these. Doctrine means you're learning what the Bible actually teaches. A lot of folks have got a blessing box approach to the Bible. Now, the blessing box approach is you just... Have you seen those blessing boxes? They're terrible. People actually make blessing boxes. A little blessing box means you've got a little series of Bible verses in your blessing box. And you open up the box and you take out your card for the day. It's roughly analogous to the fortune cookie. and you take it out and you look at it and you say, oh, what an inspiring thing. You don't have any idea really. You know, you take the verse out and you haven't read it in the passage. You really don't know what Jesus is getting at. You don't understand that. It's basically just a kind of inspirational little blip that can make you feel better for the day. That's the blessing box approach. There's another approach of the Bible that's anti-doctrinal. And that's an approach that basically says we can't believe everything the Bible says. The Bible's wonderful, inspiring literature. We read it the way we read any great literature of the world. It helps us, but we can't believe everything it says. Now, either of those approaches will not build you up. Doctrine means that you are coming to learn that there's a system of truth in the Bible, that there are truths there. There's teachings there. And you're beginning to understand the organic unity of it. And you're beginning to understand the Bible's teachings as a whole. And you're beginning to, because you really know what Ephesians says. Now when you pick up some other book of the Bible, you say, oh, I remember that. I see that. That makes it more easy for me to understand what that teaching was. You're beginning to see the unity of it. You're actually learning the doctrine. You've got to know the doctrine. That's part of building up. Secondly, there's reproof. You've got to go beyond doctrine. You've got to go beyond just thinking intellectually about what the Bible teaches to where you're letting the Bible deal with you convict you. Remember we talked about this before. Remember when David sinned, killed Uriah, married Bathsheba, the prophet comes to David, tells him a little story. Remember that? We talked about it last week. And the way he ends the little story, Nathan, the prophet goes to David and says, thou art the man. This is you. This is your life. And David is brought back. Do you ever read the Do you ever hear the Bible taught in such a way that up comes this hand out of the pages saying, Thou art the one. That's reproof. And there has to be that element in your life. Do you sense the Bible dealing with you? Or another way to put it is, do you find the Bible arguing with you? Do you say, Oh, but I believe this and this, and yet the Bible comes through with its arguments. And it says, But you can't be worried. But you can't be sinning. You can't be disobedient. find the Bible arguing with you? Do you find it convicting you? That's reproof. And then thirdly, you've got correction or healing or mending is the original word there. Does the Bible mend you? Do you find that it summonses and its promises and its assurances lift you up, make it easier for you to get through your week, build you up, thrill you at some points, enable you to get on by with the assurances? You see, is it really operating in your life? And then lastly comes training in righteousness. And training in righteousness means not only do you find that you're learning the Bible's doctrine and you're being convicted by the Bible's teaching and you're being built up and inspired and helped by the Bible's assurances and promises, but you're actually making changes. You are letting the Bible discipline you and change you the way you live today, the way you live tomorrow, the way in which you deal with people, the way in which you regard yourself, the way in which you behave on the job, and so on. Now, if you are not operating like that in your life, you are not being the recipient of this edification ministry, of this upbuilding through the ministry of the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists and the pastors and teachers. You're either not in the right groups, you're not in the right ministries, you're not in the right church because this has got to be happening in your life or you'll never reach the fullness of the stature of Christ. Never reach it. There has got to be this ministry going on. And that doesn't mean necessarily sitting under one particular teacher. It means a variety of things going on. People who are ministering to you. The study of the Word on your own. The study of the Word with friends. The discussion of the truth. The doctrine of reproof, correction, training, and righteousness does not just happen in an auditorium like this, but happens during the week in talking to other people about it, other Christians about it. It happens in small groups, and it should also be happening in a church that you attend. in. Now, is that happening in your life? If you're getting that upbuilding, number one, and you're using your gifts, number two, you finally get to what it says here, the unity in the faith and in the knowledge of the Son of God, so you become mature. What is that? The unity in the faith and the knowledge of the Son of God are just two wonderful topics that I'd love to unpack, but I don't have time tonight. In brief, the unity in the faith. The faith is talking about your understanding of the doctrine of the faith. I'll tell you what, a lot of people mean by the faith a list of truths. And if that's what Paul's talking about here, we're in trouble. Because unity of the faith is not something that Christians can come to in a mechanical way. Christians differ about things, don't they? differ on baptism. They differ on tongues. They differ on just, you know, church government. They differ on many, many, many, many things. And so unity of the faith cannot really mean that we agree on all 78 points of doctrine. I think what he's talking about here is definitely the faith, which is the heart, the message of how we approach God through faith. It's the gospel. And to grow in the gospel means, first of all, you know, this message, the faith, the one faith that Paul talks about up in verse 3. The one faith is that you understand that we are saved by faith alone. It's what Luther calls justification by faith. Martin Luther says, you're saved by faith alone, but not by a faith which is alone. You're saved by faith without works, but not by a faith that is without works. Did you get that?

Because Romans says it. And Galatians says it. That is, and if you don't have this, you don't have Christ. If you don't grasp this, you don't grasp Christ. You are saved not by your good deeds, but by faith in the fact that Christ has done it all for you, that he accomplished everything on the cross for you. When you actually see that, it creates good works in your life. You know, what's ironic about this is, of the faith, when we're all united in our strength, in our faith, that we rely on Jesus Christ and not on our good works, that we're saved by faith. If we're growing in this understanding, it really does issue in good works and maturity and character change. A lot of people say to me, and maybe this has happened to you, and maybe some of you are thinking this right now, if it's really true that we're not saved because of anything we do, if it's strictly through faith and what Jesus did on the cross. Then what incentive have you got to be good? What incentive have you got to be mature and to be more loving and to be more patient? What incentive have you got to be like Christ? And you know what the answer is?

Well, what incentive did you have before I took it away from you? So when someone says, well, if I feel like I can't be lost, I'm completely saved because of what Jesus did on the cross, if I believe that, I'd lose all my incentive Well, what incentive do you have then? It's fear. You're driven by this fear that unless I do good, unless I'm good enough, God will reject me, he won't hear my prayers, and he'll drop me into hell. That's an incentive. Yes, it's an incentive of sorts. But I'll tell you this. It's an incentive that does not produce real goodness of character at all. You know why? Here's what's so ironic. Until you realize that your good works can't save you, you can't do a good work for God. Because what you're really doing when you're out there, when you're coming to church, because you think maybe then God will hear my prayer and accept me. When you're out feeding the homeless, because maybe then God will put favor on me. When you're doing nice things and watching your language and being honest because you don't want God to get you. Who are you doing those things for? You're doing them for yourself. You're feeding the homeless for yourself. You're going to church for yourself out of it. You're not doing it for Him. It's not a good work. It's only when you finally see, I am saved surely by the grace of God, because my sins are too great for me to ever be acceptable to Him, but surely out of His grace, He has provided for me what Luther called an alien righteousness. God's record of Jesus Christ's perfect record has been transferred into my account. It's just like somebody sat down on the computer like they do in all the little The little fiction movies where somebody who's a computer where he sits down and here's a person who's got a million dollar debt and here's a person who's got a million dollar credit and somebody with a computer gets on, breaks on into all the little systems and switches it around. So now the IRS men go after you. And now everybody over here, you've got all this tremendous resource in your bank and you can live like a king. That's exactly what God has done for you. He's imputed the perfect righteousness of Christ into your account. He's imputed your sins into his account. Jesus as you deserve. He treats you as Jesus deserves. That's the gospel. And until you get a hold of that, you can't grow in goodness. You can't grow in love and patience. Because when you see, I am saved because of grace alone, then and only then can you live a life of grateful joy. Then and only then can you start to say, I want to feed people. I want to serve people. I want to pour myself out for people just to please God, just to glorify him and to serve other people. you see, I'm not doing it for myself anymore. I'm full. I got everything I could possibly want. I'm not operating in response to need. I'm not operating in response to my own emptiness. I am acting toward the world in response to my fullness.

And it's when you grow in the unity of faith. It's when you grow in that. When you grow in your understanding of justification by faith alone, that you're a sinner saved by grace, that you move into the fullness of the stature of Christ. It's not easy. You know, Romans 6 tells us, Paul says, since you're alive with Christ, you must reckon yourself alive with Christ. Since you're righteous now, you have to reckon yourself as righteous. Now, I like to make fun of that. You know, a lot of people, when they see Paul saying, reckon yourself dead to sin, reckon yourself righteous, a lot of people say, well, Paul's from Texas. You know, because in English, in American English, the word reckon means, well, I think, I maybe, you know, I hope. But that's not the way Paul is using it. The word reckon means to account it up, to think it out. And what Paul says is the way in which you grow into the fullness of the stature of Christ is you think out and you account up who you are. You act out who you are. You have to remind yourself all the time. Martin Lloyd-Jones has a great illustration. He says, imagine a slave who all of his life has been beat up and thrown around. And then one day the Emancipation Proclamation is declared. And on that day, that slave is freed. The next day, somebody could come up to that slave, just like they have all of the rest of their lives, and start to order that slave around. Now the slave knows that now he has recourse to the court system. resource to go to the government. He's got resource to go to the president. Now he's got an appeal. He can do something. He doesn't have to be ordered around anymore. He's not chattel. He's not cargo. He's not property anymore. He's a human being. And yet, after 40 or 50 years of being treated as a slave, do you think that the day that he legally becomes a free man, he's going to immediately start to act like a free man? It's going to be hard. Very hard. When people start to order him around like a slave, he's going to have to say in his heart, he has to say, no, I'm going to reckon myself a free man. I'm going to act a free man. I'm going to remember who I am. I'm going to know that even if they come after me or something like that, I now am a citizen and I've got rights. And unless he does that, he's going to start acting like a slave again. Friends, we're all in the same boat. How do you attain to the unity of the faith and reach the fullness of the stature of Christ? You've been told, for example, it doesn't matter whether you've had a date in the last two or three years. God says, I love you. I accept you. I value you. I've got great things in store for you. Now, you can either believe, you can reckon, you can reckon that you're saved by faith, or you can listen to the old slave fears which say, nobody's asked you out. You're dirt. You're gutter grime. You know, what are you? What's your meaning in life? Who are you going to listen to at that point? Are you reckoning yourself dead to sin? Are you reckoning yourself? Is Jesus your King or are you still a slave? A slave to what people think. A slave to all the old fears that say, I have to earn this. I have to have dates. I have to have made it in my business. I have to... People have to love me. You know, unfortunately, we heard that song one time. You're nobody till somebody loves you. a whole lot deeper than what the Bible says. A lot deeper. How are you going to come to the fullness of the stature of Christ? You have to take the faith. You have to take the doctrine of the faith, which is that you're saved by faith alone. You're saved by the grace of God alone. And you have to work that into the center of your life constantly reminding yourself of who you are and not letting yourself bow the knee to any other slave master. Not bow the knee to any other master. And you have got to count that up That's what it means to attain to the unity of the faith and eventually reach the fullness of the stature of Christ. Look, we come to the table now. I'm going to defer to Jeff, and he's going to lead us to the table. But what we should be doing is asking ourselves these questions. Am I regularly being edified through the Word of God in my life? Secondly, is my character actually changing because of the input and the output that I am receiving in ministry? I'm getting good input. I'm doing good output. Am I really growing? And if I'm not, is it possible because I'm not attaining the unity of the faith? Is it possible that instead of me growing in my faith and knowledge of the Son of God, I'm continuing to be enslaved to older ways of salvation? My old religions, the old things I worship, the old things that gave me my meaning in life, the old things that I worship and they're still pushing me around. table, you need to say, Lord Jesus, I want to see you. I want to be like you. I repent of how little I've changed in my character. I repent of how little I've been growing up into my head, how little I've been reaching the fullness of the stature of Christ. And what I ask you to do now, oh Lord Jesus, this is what you're saying, is I want you to show me how I can be better edified. I want you to show me how I can stop acting like a slave and begin acting like your son or your daughter. I want to attain the fullness of the stature of Christ. Cleanse me, change me, mold me, break me, feed me. Let's pray. Our Father, the purpose of the gifts, the purpose of the gifts is not to be busy. It's not to spectacular. The purpose of the gifts is to become like your son. And Lord, that's what we want more than anything else. Our impatience. Our worry. Our lack of peace. Our resentment. These things are our punishment. We don't need to be punished for our resentment. We don't need to be punished for our impatience. They are our punishment. We're miserable in them. There is nothing we want more and nothing we need more than to be like your Son. All of our problems, all of our problems will go by the boards. All of our problems will evaporate and lift and melt away if we are like your Son. That's what we want. And that's what we ask, that you would, in some small but significant ways now, minister your grace into our lives through the sacrament of the Lord's Supper so that we can realize that goal. And we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.
