Ever since Easter, we've been looking at this great chapter, 1 Corinthians 15, and in it, Paul essentially says this, if Jesus Christ was like the founders of all the other world religions, in other words, if he had died and stayed dead, then being a Christian, living a Christian life, would mean to be striving with all of our might to follow the blueprint for life that our founder left us. But Paul says, because Jesus is not someone who died and stayed dead, because he's risen, because he's alive, it changes everything. Because when you believe in him, you don't just get a blueprint, you get him. You get him literally. He comes to you. He enters you. And as a result, Paul is saying, the resurrection of Christ means Christian is to live life in an entirely new dimension. It's a whole new order of being, and that's why, as we saw earlier in the chapter, Paul doesn't say, by the grace of God, I think what I think. He doesn't say, by the grace of God, I do what I do. He says, by the grace of God, I am what I am. I'm a whole new being. Everything has been changed. And we said, as we've been looking at this chapter that Paul says that life has certain characteristics. And we've looked at three so far. We looked at the moral courage and heroism that's possible in this new life. We looked at guilt-free freedom, boldness of guilt-free living. We looked at the inner power. And this week, we're going to look at the very last of these marks that Paul mentions, the marks of the new life in the resurrection of Christ. And that is, it's a life of hope. It's a life of hope. Earlier in the chapter, Paul says up in verse 19, he says, in if only for this life we have hope in Christ, we are to be pitied more than all men. We've got a hope that goes beyond this life. Paul is talking about something that is utterly different than what we think about when we think of the word hope. One of the problems with this word is in English the word hope is a very weak word. When we talk about hoping so, it means I'm not sure. In the Bible the word hope refers to this. It's a joyful conviction on the basis of compelling evidence. In the Bible, the word Christian hope refers to the joyful conviction on the basis of compelling evidence. And what Paul tells us here, very simply, is that Christians have got a hope that enables them to face anything. Christians have a hope. What does that mean? There was an unsinkableness about them. There's a stubborn buoyancy about them. You sink them and they keep coming back up. No matter how much the world seems to be on top of them, they feel like they're on top of the world. Where does this come from? And Paul says it's a hope. the same thing as optimism. Not at all. Don't let no one in this room go away thinking that we're talking about optimism. As a matter of fact, my thesis here is that Christian hope enables Christians to be joyfully pessimistic about life. Christians have a hope that enables them to stop denying how much life stinks. There are many people who just have to live in denial, and they're always being surprised that life stinks. They're always being amazed that it's so terrible, that it's so painful, that it's so traumatic. It shouldn't be like this. It isn't going to be like this. I won't let it be like this. There's a tremendous amount of dysfunction that occurs because we just cannot, we can't bear to admit how horrible life is, how miserable it is, how painful it is. Christian hope enables them to be more fiercely realistic than anybody else. Because Christian hope means that they've got confidence on the basis of compelling evidence, they've got a clear sight of a magnificence beyond the mundane. They've got a clear sight of a life out there, a life beyond that they're bound for. In other words, a Christian is someone who looks at the vicissitudes of this life and even the pain of this life and looks at the mundane of daily reality, and a Christian looks at it and says, this is not all there is. There's light and high beauty forever beyond the reach of these shadows, and I'm bound for it so I can handle these shadows. These are just shadows. That's all they are. Christians have a hope that enables them to be done with the very, very, very pathological denial that many, many people have got to engage in, denial of how much life stinks. are fiercely realistic. They're joyfully pessimistic. They expect life to be tough. They're not shocked when it is. And they're able to because they've got a hope that gives them the ability to face it. Are you unsinkable like that? Have you got that kind of stubborn buoyancy? Don't you need it? If you don't need it yet, if you haven't felt the need for it yet, you're very young. Now, this Christian hope which Paul says is available to you has two aspects, two facets to it. And we have to look at both of them and unless you understand both of them you're not going to have the same kind of hope and buoyancy. These two things are the defeat of death and the hope of glory. And we're going to look at both of them now mostly the defeat of death but also the hope of glory. You've got to have both of them to have the fullness of the hope and to give you the kind of buoyancy and a kind of stubborn unsinkableness that can be the mark of resurrection living. Joyful pessimism. Endurance. Now, first of all, Paul says the reason he's got this hope is because of the defeat of death. You have got to see death as a defeated enemy. That is not the way most people look at death today. Paul puts it this way. When the perishable has been closed with the imperishable, and the mortal with immortality, then the saying that is written will come true, death has been swallowed up in victory. There. Why does death have to be swallowed up in victory? Because it's an enemy. You must see death as an enemy. That's not the way most people see it. People today are taught to either deny death or befriend death. And if you do either of those things, you will not have the fierce joy and the buoyancy that arises from Christian hope. Look, first of all, people are taught either to deny it or to befriend it. Denial. 150 years ago, things were totally reversed. It's very ironic. In the old days, you didn't talk about birth and reproduction in polite society, but death was something you talked about all the time. Today, we talk about sex and birth and reproduction, but death is an impolite thing to talk about. There's been a reversal. It used to be sex was pornographic and death was not. Today, death is pornographic and sex is not. We are far more squeamish, far more fussy, far more appalled by death than any generation in the history of the world. We are afraid of it. We are creeped out by it in a way that no one else is. Some of that's technology. Some of it's technology. Look, today, a person dies usually under sedation, in some special place, in a hospital, in a medical context, so that really neither the person dying nor the family or the friends around them actually have to talk with them about it all the time. And now, because of technology, we can really make the corpse look like something else. Oh, she looks beautiful. Because she looks so good. Well, it's because she's surrounded by flowers and dim light and makeup and all that. Let me tell you, 150 years ago, she died in her bed. And the family, the father and the children, laid her out. And they had the friends in. And they dug the grave in the backyard and they buried their mother. And that was routine. Today, if a child even sees somebody die, we have to bring in psychologists for them. and I'm not saying that's wrong because they need the psychologist because of the way in which our society operates we are more scared of death than we've ever been and I want you to say my proposal today is it's not simply because of technology no it's because as Peter Berger put it he's a sociologist modern human beings modern society has a world without windows what does he mean by that If you're driving a car, you've got to have a window. You've got to see what's outside of the car. Or you can't know how to operate the car. You see reality out there, a tree. So the reality out there determines how you operate inside. Our ancestors knew through a window of their faith, they knew what was going to happen when they died. They saw out there God and eternity and righteousness and justice. you see they knew what was going to happen when they died they had a world with windows and they knew that how they operated in this life you see had to be affected by the realities out there they made sacrifices they lived for principles and ideals they denied themselves because they knew that the realities out there in the future world in the above world affected the way they lived here ah but Peter Berger says this is different today Modern people, as faith in God has waned, and especially the certainty about an afterlife has waned, we now have a world without windows. We have no idea whether the things we're doing here today are going to affect our afterlife. And you know what that means? Why do you think we're scared? Have you ever tried to drive a car without any windows? does. It's very hard to turn the wheel or to put on the gas or do anything without feeling extremely anxious. And that's how we live. And that's the reason why death is so frightening to modern people. Dietrich Bonhoeffer said, death is simply the final festival on the road to freedom. Thomas Hobbes, the skeptic, said as he was about to die, I'm about to go on my last voyage, a great leap in the dark. Now today there's a far more Thomas Hobbes than there are Dietrich Bonhoeffers out there. It's a leap in the dark. We hate death. We're scared of death because we're driving without windows. We have no idea what's going to happen out there. And we have no idea whether what we're doing here and how we're operating inside here is going to have an impact on us when we die. Dr. Samuel Johnson said, no one can die without fear. Rousseau said, anyone who says he can die without fear is a liar. Samuel Johnson says it's not rational to die without fear. Here's why. People would say to Samuel Johnson, but who knows what's happening after life? the reason why it's irrational to die without fear. Epicurus, the Greek philosopher, put it rather well with furious logic. The way he put it was, what people fear most about death is not that maybe death is annihilation, but maybe it is not. You see, everybody in this room knows that we've failed. We've failed our parents as children. We've failed our children as parents. We've failed our failed our lovers. We failed our friends. We failed as citizens. We failed as people. We know those shortcomings. And we know that if there isn't a judge who is going to someday put everything right and judge impartially, there's no hope for the world. But if there is a judge,

is there any hope for us? The thing that we're most afraid of is we know that we owe more than a God and if there is a judge and what if payment due is on the day we die. See, that's why Samuel Johnson said it is irrational not to be afraid of death if you don't know what's there. As Epicurus put it, we're not afraid because maybe death is annihilation, we're afraid because maybe death is not annihilation. It's not just technology that means that we're scared. We're driving without windows. We hate that. It's a great leap in the dark. And anybody who says they're not scared, Johnson says you're not being rational. Now, that's the reason we deny it. That's the reason we get it away. That's the reason we've got to cosmetise it. That's the reason she can't look dead. She's got to look like a dreamless sleep. That's the reason we've got to put them away and let them die behind monitors. That's the reason we have to have the psychologists come out when we witness it. now there's a movement that's trying to get us away from denial of death and i'll just mention it briefly just but just also show you that's also an inadequate approach in the middle part of the 20th century a lot of psychologists began to realize that as faith in god has waned this fear of death has come up we're much more afraid of death than we ever used to be in the past and they realize that's psychologically devastating because if you can't face the thing that you fear If you repress and deny the thing that you fear, you know what happens. You're influenced by it. You're affected by it. You're controlled by it. And so the psychologists began to realize that here's people living in a world without windows. And therefore, they're afraid of death, but it dominates their life. So we have got to find a way of helping people face death. And so what came out of this is what I call the death is natural movement. You know, it started with Elizabeth Kubler-Ross and her books and the hospice movement. But generally speaking, for the last 20 years, caring professionals, counselors, and all sorts of other kinds of professionals have been trained to help people deal with death by telling them this, death is just a natural part of life, death is nothing to be feared, death is just peaceful cessation, death is just a dreamless sleep, death is just the drop of water going back into the shining sea. there is nothing to be afraid it's just peaceful cessation now you know the irony of all that

is that here you're trying to help people without religious value judgments just try to say well i want you to deal with death but i'm not going to talk about religion but that is a value judgment there's no scientific evidence that death is natural as a matter of fact as i want to show you will never get hope you will never get buoyancy if you decide death is just natural and a friend if you deny it if you befriend it you'll never get the kind of fear story the ability to defy death, to laugh at it, the way he does in this chapter. No. Christianity says death is not something to be denied, and it's not something to be befriended. Death is an enemy. And if you decide that death is natural, you have killed a part of your humanity. There is nothing more human than to want to last. That's what makes us different than animals, among many other things. We want to last. We don't want to be ephemeral. We don't want to be a wave on the sand. We don't want to be inconsequential. We want to last. We rage against the dying of the light. We sense that it's perverted, it's not natural. We sense that it's monstrosity. It's not healthy. We sense that it's alien. And unless you see it as an enemy, you'll never get to victory because it's a defeated enemy. Defeated. Look at how Paul talks about it. death. Paul shows it no respect at all. Paul says if you're a Christian and you've got the hope that Christ can give you, you will show death no respect. You laugh in the face of it. There's a buoyancy and unsinkableness that Christians have because they know it's not just an enemy, and it's certainly not just something to be denied or a friend, but it is a defeated enemy. You know, Sir Walter Scott explains what an amazing defeat that must be. Sir Walter Scott puts it this way. Listen. O mighty death, those whom none other could convince, thou hast persuaded. Those whom all others flattered, thou hast mocked. Thou hast fetched all the greatness, all the pride, all the cruelty, all the power and ambition of humanity, two little words here lies all of your ambitions in this whole room and it's a lot of them all of your achievements and this is the New York crowd and there's a lot of them all of your aspirations and this is the New York cloud crowd and there's a lot more of them than the achievements all of your accomplishments all of your achievements all of your aspirations all of your hopes all of them, that's a lot of them, death is so powerful that someday every single one of them will lie under two little words, here lies. Death is powerful. So how in the world does Paul have the audacity to say, oh death, where is thy sting? Oh grave, where is thy victory? Can I give you a modern English translation. Nah, nah, nah, nah, nah. Paul is not showing in many respect at all. Don't be surprised. You know, it's kind of exalted English. But what is he doing? He is teasing death. This death that has brought down the ones that everybody else flatters. This death that has brought down the ones that no one can persuade. This death has taken all of our ambitions and all of the greatness and pride and the ambitions and the power of humanity and covered it under two little words. Paul says, where is thy death? Death, where is thy sting? Grave, where is thy victory? George Herbert, remember, in his great dialogue anthem, Christian says to death, death, alas, poor death. Where is thy glory? Where is thy famous force, thy ancient sting? The reason that Paul can laugh and the reason that a Christian can laugh is because of the gospel, which Paul gave to us embedded early in the chapter. and four and five. What is the gospel? Jesus Christ died for our sins according to the scripture. And that means just this, Dr. Johnson, you're absolutely right. Dr. Johnson, it's irrational not to fear death unless you know this, that the payment due notice that might, that you are afraid might come due on the day of your death has been paid. Jesus has paid it. Jesus has fulfilled it. Jesus has taken your flaws and he's taken your shortcomings, the things that you know, the things you know you owe, and he's dealt with it. Death is a spear aimed right at your heart and Jesus has thrown himself in front of it and taken it right in the chest. And as a result, death, where is thy sting? Grave, where is thy victory? Death is a... death has been paid, And what Paul's point is when he says the sting of death is sin, he is saying if you defeat sin, you have defeated death. Or I'll put it this way, George Herbert in another one of his poems is wonderful. He says, death used to be an executioner, but in the gospel, he's just a gardener. Now, what does he mean? When Samuel Johnson met death, what we can tell from all the things that he wrote before he died, he met death as an executioner. George Herbert, who lived around, I think, the same time, was also an English Anglican, he was an Anglican priest. He says, but when I realize what God has done for me in the gospel, when I realize that Jesus has taken my sin for me, he's taken my punishment, then when I meet death, all death can do, he's a gardener, he plants me to make me something wonderful. He plants me as a seed and I come up a gorgeous flower. Put it this way. If sin has been defeated, death can do nothing but make you better. That great dialogue anthem, George Herbert, as Christian says to death, Alas, poor death, where is thy ancient sting? Where is thy famous horse, thy ancient sting? Death looks and says, Alas, poor mortal, go and see how I killed your king. Christian says, poor death, and who was hurt thereby? My curse being put on him makes thee accursed. And death says, let losers talk. Yet thou shalt die. These arms of mine shall crush thee. What's Christian say? Spare not. Do thy worst. For if you crush me, you will only make me better than before. And thou so much worse that thou shalt be no more. What's he mean? What does a gardener do when it buries a seed? What does a gardener do when it takes a seed and puts it underground? It makes it better. What will death do to you? If sin has been dealt with and you know it, you know, death becomes just the dark door into the banquet hall. Here you come up to this dark door. It's clammy. It's terrible. It creaks. It groans. But you can hear the laughter on the other side and you can see the light coming through the door. What do you do? You grab hold of the clammy doorknob and you get creeped out by the cobwebs, but you pull it open and suddenly you're inside. That's all you do. Let everybody else tell you of death because it's natural. You know it's not. Let everybody else tell you don't have to be afraid of death because it's inevitable. But Christianity says you don't be afraid of death because it's defeated. You can laugh in its face. You can taunt it. It's gone. Spare not. Do thy worst. But that's not all. And there's one last thing that Paul says comprises the Christian hope. You may think that's enough, but it's not. Paul goes on and says, not only do we know death is defeated, but we are going to be resurrected like our Lord. That's what you read about here. What Paul is saying is, I put it this way, if Paul had stopped at the point that we've gotten to here, you might think that what it means to have Christian hope is that when you die, you'll just go along in some kind of vague, vague spiritual continuance in the presence of God. But no, Paul says my joy goes beyond that, and my hope and my buoyancy goes beyond that. Because the Bible tells me, just as Jesus Christ was raised from the dead, so I am going to be raised from the dead. I am not just going to live forever in some kind of spiritual state. I am going to get a new body. Now, what's the point of that? Somebody says, oh, it doesn't matter. What does it matter? matters immensely. You know, until the Bible came along, and even today, there's always been an Eastern and a Western view of matter and physical. The Eastern view of the physical is that matter is an illusion. That's what Buddha said. The Buddha said it's an illusion. There's no difference between spirit and matter. It's all one. Matter is an illusion. Sickness is an illusion. All of this is an illusion. The Western view of matter was that it's bad. The Greek and the Roman view was it's bad, it's dirty, it's temporary, and salvation means getting away from the physical. But the Bible says that God invented the spiritual and the physical, and they have both been crushed under the weight of sin, and they're both going to be redeemed. And God does not consider the spiritual more important than the physical. You were invented body and soul by God, and you're you're going to be redeemed body and soul by God. Now that makes sense. Look at your misery today. Look at it. You're not just miserable because of your soul. Yes, your soul is full of anger and discouragement. It's full of fear. Of course it is. But your body is also full of brokenness and misery. Your body is dying. lying. Again, if it hasn't started, eventually you're going to feel it. Your body was not meant to be diseased. It was not meant to be frail. It was not meant to become the intolerable burden that eventually it becomes to everybody, every human being. It wasn't meant to be like that. And as a result of that, it would be silly to imagine that Jesus Christ, that God would have sent his son into the world to address the misery and the pain of your life and my life and only address half of it. Absolutely not. He doesn't just address half of it. As a matter of fact, this is the incredible promise that is mentioned here. See, when the perishable should put on the imperishable and when the mortal will put on immortality, here's how it happens. Romans. Paul says, look at the seed. In the seed is the flower. But not until the seed dies and goes underground does the flower come up. The flower was in the seed. The flower is the seed. But death brings out the flower through the power that was in the seed. If you're a Christian, this is what the Bible says. In Romans 8, 11, if the spirit that raised Jesus Christ is in you, he will also give life to your mortal body through the Spirit that is in you. Do you believe in Jesus? Have you believed? Have you given yourself to him? Then the Spirit that raised Jesus from the dead has come into you and it's not here only. Oh your ambitions are so small. It's not here only to help you with your guilt. We talked about that this month. It is here for that the spirit of the resurrected Christ is not here just to help you with your fears. We talked about that. It is here for that it's not here just to help you overcome your bad habits and change your character it is here for that we talked about that it's also here not just to deal with your soul it's here eventually to give you a completely glorious and perfect body because the salvation is so great that it addresses every part of reality, the material as well as the immaterial. It's going to purge everything. And that's the reason why I looked at what we were reading. Our body is sown in dishonor, it'll be raised in glory. We talked about it last week. We're going to be made into bright stainless mirrors,

cleaned, ground perfectly, so we will reflect back to God his own boundless love and goodness and graciousness and greatness and nobility. Christianity, Christian friends, if you could get a picture of what you're going to be, you would be tempted to bow down and worship it right now. It will be sown in weakness, it'll be raised in power. That means that in this new state, this new future glorious state, we are going to be capable of infinite growth, infinite sensation. Sown in weakness, raised in power. hour have you ever tried to explain one sense in terms of another we have five senses have you ever talked to a person born blind and tried to explain one sense in terms of another you try it I think red is like the sound of a trumpet it doesn't work you have to experience it we only have five senses here I wonder how many senses we're going to have in that glorious body you see, that's in the promise here. Maybe we'll have a hundred senses. Maybe we'll have a thousand senses. Maybe we'll have ten thousand senses. Today, compared to what you will be then, you are a vegetable. You are a tomato. You are a cucumber. Sown in weakness will be raised in power. Sown in dishonor will be raised in glory. And star differs from star in glory. None of this one little drop going back into the sea. What does it mean when it says, each star differs from every other star in glory? Every flower from every seed. You know what it means? We will keep our personal existence. Think about this. Praise God for the fact that this is the only religion that talks about our future glory in terms of the physical and the individual. The Christian hope is not for a nirvana embodied spirit sort of float through feeling the vibrations of. It talks about what? We will keep our individuality. Look at the risen Christ after he was raised from the dead. He ate a fish. In the kingdom of God, you will love, you will eat, you will drink, you will hug. I was just saying this to my 10-year-old this morning. He needs a lot of hugs in the morning. And I looked at him and I said, what would heaven be like without hugs? What would a future glory be like without hugs? Don't you see? We will walk, it says in the kingdom of God. We're not going to float over it. With your feet, your glorified feet, you will march in the kingdom of God. You will eat and drink with the Son of Man. You will know each other. Of course, they didn't recognize Jesus, the risen Jesus on the road to Emmaus, who he was. And we'll run up to each other and we'll grab each other and we'll say, look at you, look at the magnificence of you. Why on earth every so often I saw glimpses of this. In your very best moments, I saw flashes of this. Look at you now. That is the only kind of future glory that will fill you with hope and buoyancy. A raindrop falling back into the ocean. How exciting is that? A future without hugs. A future without food. A future without music. We will sing in the kingdom of God. We will build, we will learn, we will eat, we will drink in the kingdom of God. We will march in the kingdom of God. We will dance in the kingdom of God. Paul says, if the spirit of Jesus Christ that raised Jesus Christ is in you, God will give life to your mortal bodies through the spirit that is within you. What are the implications of this? I'll just close very briefly. They're vast. Number one, I'm going to just give just three of them real quick. Two of them for Christians. First of all, Christian friends, first of all, you know what this means? It means God likes the physical. God likes matter. Go out and get Rent Someday, the video of the movie Babette's Feast, based on a short story by Isaac Dennison. You know what the book, you know what it's about? It's subtitled. So some of you might find that irritating, but you know what it's all about? I'll tell you what a group of well-meaning Christians who are afraid of the physical. They wear nasty clothes. They don't eat nice things. They live pinched lives because they feel like it's unspiritual to have any kind of pleasure at all. And they take in a French woman and they help her during a time of difficulty. And it turns out she is a world-class chef. And she says, in order to show you my gratitude, I'm going to make you a tremendous feast. And they all sit down and it's the best they've ever, ever tasted, and they hate it. And the message is, if you can't enjoy a good feast, you are not ready for God's future. We will eat and drink and we'll sit down with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. God invented the physical. He became physical to redeem us. Christianity, understood properly, can never be the opiate of the people. The Bible doesn't say just save their souls. It doesn't matter if they're hungry. you see the Eastern view says the physical is an illusion and the Western view says the physical is bad and God says you better be of Christianity as a fighting religion because when you see hunger and you see disease and you see pain you know God hates it he died to deal with it God wants to redeem it and if you're a Christian you do to the physical is important you minister in word and deed you're not afraid of the physical you're not trying to escape the physical if you because God says at the end of time, my glory, the Omega point of history is a redeemed body and soul. Secondly, Christian friends, this hope is not something that operates automatically. It doesn't operate automatically. See, Paul says, remember in Romans 8, he says, I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that should be revealed. Now, what does the word reckon mean? He adds it up. That's what the word reckon means. You see, in order to have this buoyancy that Paul had, you can't just say, I'm a Christian, now I ought to have it. You have to think. Let me tell you what the difference is between defiance and hope. I've talked to many Christians who are trying to face the problems in their life. Some of you right now are trying to face the problems in your life with defiance instead of hope. Defiance is dealing with troubles by not thinking, refusing to think. It's a stoic approach. I'm just going to get in there. I'm just going to move ahead. I'm not going to let it get to me. Defiances don't think. Hope is think more, not less. Hope is look at what God has done. Look at what Christ has done. Look at what he's done. Did God come to earth? Did he become physical? Did he die for you? Did he take the spear? Is he seated at the right hand of the Father? has he already put into your life all kinds of incredible things? Is he guaranteed that you're going to rule and reign with him? You think, and you think until the glory overwhelms you. You look at the mundane, and you think of the magnificence. You say there's light and high beauty forever beyond the reach of these shadows, and I'm bound for it. I'm not going to let these shadows get to me. See, defiance is thinking less. Trying to deal with your troubles through thinking less. Hope is thinking more. Death, where is thy sting? Grave, where is thy victory? You know what that goes? Come on, crosses, as a Christian. graves. Hurt me and you just grow me. Kill me and you just make me. See, that's hope. You're thinking, you're thinking, and you're thinking until it just, the glory overwhelms you, and you're not afraid of anything, and you're never going to give up because there's nothing that's so bad, and there's nothing that can possibly take away your real wealth, and there's nothing that can possibly take away your real health, and your real hope, glory and your real joy. Think. Reckon. When you're in trouble, what do you do? Do you jog? That's some of a help. Do you shop? Do you listen to music? Think. If you're a Christian, take the hope. Reckon it up. You'll be able to face anything. Lastly, those of you who don't know what you believe, you're not sure whether you're Christians, you know you're not a Christian, you're not really sure what you believe about a lot of this stuff, please listen and look. Underneath all the diet, which is the desire for new bodies. Underneath all the makeup, which is the desire for new skin. Underneath the wigs. Underneath the materialism of always buying new things. Underneath the desire for the new. In your heart, look at it for what it is. It's a hunger for the eternity of God. It's a hunger for newness. you look at life and you see everything decaying and you see things dying and you know that you're not built for the place like this you're built for a place where things every minute get fresher and stronger not weaker and more stagnant and Paul says through Jesus Christ there is a realm in which every minute things get stronger and stronger every minute fresher and fresher newer and newer more absorbing more vivid more coherent than ever Forever. How can I get to that hope? Go and learn what this means. Christ died for my sins according to the scripture, and he was raised again, that we may have newness of life. Go and find out what that means, and you'll have all the hope, and you'll understand why you hunger for the new. Let's pray. Father, we ask simply that you'll give us lives of hope, that you will help those of us who have got this hope to fan it, to think about it, until it makes us able to endure anything. And for those of us who don't have that hope, I pray that you'll plant it in them. Father, if you as a gardener plant this hope in the heart of a person, then death becomes no longer an executioner, but just a gardener who is forced against his will to bring it to fruition. Thank you for the hope that maketh not a shame. Thank you for a glory that fadeth not away. Thank you for your son in whose name we pray. Amen.
