Let's turn to the passage in Galatians we're looking at tonight. This is a very important passage, but you're never going to hear it read at weddings or funerals. In fact, you know, I was just thinking, you know, when I was, especially when I was in the South, I used to go into people's homes to visit them, and everybody had their favorite Bible passages embroidered up on the wall. wall. And I never saw this one. I never saw anybody embroider. Even Titus wasn't circumcised.

It just doesn't seem very inspiring, but actually it's every bit as important a passage as you're going to read in the Bible. Paul says this in Galatians 2, 1 to 10. 14 years later, I went up again to Jerusalem, this time with Barnabas. I took Titus also along. I went in response to a revelation and set before them the gospel that I preach among the Gentiles. But I did this privately to those who seemed to be leaders for fear that I was running or had run my race in vain. Yet not even Titus, who was with me, was compelled to be circumcised, even though he was a Greek. This matter rose because some false brothers had infiltrated our ranks to spy on the freedom we have in Christ Jesus, to make us and to make us slaves. We did not give in to them for a moment so that the truth of the gospel might remain with you. As for those who seem to be important, whatever they were at makes no difference to me. God does not judge by externals. Those men added nothing to my message. On the contrary, they saw that I had been entrusted the gospel of the Gentiles, just as Peter had been to the Jews. For God, who was at work in the ministry of Peter as an apostle to the Jews, was also at work in my ministry as an apostle to the Gentiles. James, Peter, and John, those reputed to be pillars, gave me and Barnabas the right hand of fellowship when they recognized the grace given to me. They agreed that we should go to the Gentiles, they to the Jews. All they asked was that we should continue to remember the poor, the very thing I was eager to do. This is God's word. Well, we have here time to look at one particular truth. There's really one thing that Paul's driving home. And when you get to it, I think that is actually gotten to in verse six. It's as important a truth as possible. First of all, let's break it down this way. First of all, Paul is again saying, that truth, doctrinal truth, is absolutely critical. You notice here in verse 4, it says, This matter arose because some false brothers had infiltrated our ranks to spy on the freedom we have in Christ Jesus to make us slaves. We did not give in to them for a moment so that the truth of the gospel might remain with you. He's fighting for a particular truth, the truth of the gospel. We'll look at that in a second. But right now he's saying, if that truth goes, your freedom's gone. If that truth goes, the freedom, the power, the love, the liberation, it's gone.

One of the things that happened to me, one of the things I've noticed recently, because for the last few months I've been buying and reading ancient spirituality. You know, the rule of Benedict and Teresa's interior castle and Loyola's spiritual exercises and those kinds of things. shopping around for the books, trying to find the cheapest version. They've been around for 1,500 years. You say, come on, I can get a cheap version somewhere. I know the copyright has expired and all that. One of the things I've noticed in a lot of not just religious bookstores, a lot of them, but even the Barnes and Noble types, when you go to the theology or ethics, the doctrine or the ethical sections, there's nothing old. Everything is new. Everything is a reinterpretation. We don't see, you know, Luther and Calvin and Augustine and Aquinas. We see modern interpretations, you see, because we, well, because it's just not popular to see what those guys used to say. They were oppressive. They were unenlightened. They had narrow views. They were retrograde. And so we have all these reinterpretations of how we should live and what we believe and reinterpretations of the incarnation and the atonement. And we have to get away from wrath, and we have to get away from narrowness, and we have to get away from all these things. So you don't have the old guys. You got the new people in the Theology and Ethics section. But when you get to spirituality, what amazed me, when you get to those sections where you have spirituality, praying, and meditation, and reflection, and mysticism, and all that, they have all the old ones. They're all there. Catholic and Protestant. All the great books of praying and all that, and I come to realize something as I was looking at that. And that is, it is the mark of our culture right now, and I know we've all been attached, we've been affected by it to some degree, that we want spirituality without theology. We want intimacy without, we want some kind of heart intimacy, but we don't want to have to bring our mind in our entire life.

You know, I don't know if this is the cause, probably not the cause, I think this is just an illustration of it, but here's a perfect illustration of it. It is a given in a place like New York, it's a given in Western culture by and large today, it's not even debated really. That you should be able to have sexual intimacy with somebody without having to give your entire life in commitment to them. It's just a given, it's just like, come on. In other words, I want to be able to have sort of intimacy with you, but I shouldn't have to say the old vow.

We were looking at one example of that this morning. In other words, I don't want to have to say, as Ruth said, may the Lord deal with me, be it ever severely, so severely, if anything but death parts me from you. That's the marriage vow. vow. May the Lord deal with me, be it ever so severely, if anything but death parts me from you. That's the marriage vow. And we say, well, whoa, gee, all right, well, you know, come on. I mean, that's like the end of independence. I mean, that's like the whole thing, and I don't know if I'm ready for that, that kind of entire commitment. I don't know if we see things that... You know, why does my entire mind, my entire life, why does everything else have to come? of intimacy without that. It's just a given. And because it's a given, we're just bringing it right into our religion. I want intimacy with God, but I do not want to have to deal with the whole Bible with all those unenlightened things. I don't want to have to submit my entire mind to all those kinds of weird things. I don't want to have to put God absolutely central in my life and completely obey and wrestle with all that. No. I don't want the theology. I don't want the ethics. I don't want to have to change the way in which I live, down and I want to be able to connect. I want spirituality. I want meaning. I want prayer. I want these things. Now, common sense, you know, we have all the old timers in spirituality. We don't have the old timers in theology, but where do you think the old timers got their spirituality from? C.S. Lewis put it in a very, very interesting way. What is your theology? What is doctrine? He says it's a map. Now, for example, the few times that I've been in Britain and in a car, I need the map. I mean, I'm not from there. I've never lived there. And if I'm in London and somebody says, I'm going to drive to Scotland, I have no idea where I'm going. So I get out the map. And the map shows me what? It's just nothing but colored paper. The map shows me, you know, the various roads and the M20, I think it is, and take me to Scotland. And you know what? On the one hand, when I open that map and I see that, that is not Scotland. And if I put it down and I stand on it and I roast a hot dog, it's silly for me to say that I've had a picnic in Scotland.

On the other hand, I will never, ever, ever, ever, ever find Scotland without that map. The map is not Scotland, but without the map, I will never experience Scotland. hit Scotland without the map, I won't even know what part of Scotland I'm in. I won't know how this part relates to this part. I won't be able to make sense of my experience of Scotland. You see, you have to have them both. And see, if you believe, let's just say you say, all of my life I have always believed that I'm sinful and that through some great divine intervention, Jesus Christ, God has come into the world in the form of Jesus Christ and he died for my sins. Now that's It's the map. When you say that, in a sense, that's just colored paper.

And there's plenty of people, maybe some of you, who believe that all of your life, and you don't know God any more than the person who's standing on the map roasting a weenie has had a picnic in Scotland. But I'll tell you this. If you don't believe it, if you don't submit to that, if you don't follow the map, if you don't believe in forgiveness, if you don't believe in sin. It's just the most ridiculous thing in the world to think that somehow you're going to get there. I mean, you can't have theology without spirituality. What is Paul saying over and over again? He says, if you lose the truth of the gospel, the freedom's gone. The liberation is gone. The spirituality's gone. The love, the power, the glory, it's all gone. It's all gone. That's why we've got to keep the truth. Okay, well, what is the truth? Now, the particular truth that he's talking about right here, I'm going to put it to you this way. The one truth that he's pressing and pushing. Without which you will never know. The fair beauty of the Lord. The everlasting arms. The weight of glory. The peace like a river. The shelter of his wings. The truth is not those things. But without the truth you'll never find them. You see. The truth becomes alive. It comes in. So forth. Now. What is the truth?

accepted through Jesus Christ plus nothing. You're accepted through Jesus Christ plus nothing. What makes you acceptable, what makes you loved, what makes you received by God, what makes you acceptable is Jesus plus nothing. Where do you get that? It's actually just a little bit, it's a little obscured by the translation in verse 6. In verse 6, it says, As for those who seem to be important. Now, at first you read this and Paul just seems to be kind of huffing. you know as for those who seem to be important whatever they were makes no difference to me for god does not judge by external appearance now if you have the old king james bible some of you might actually have one of those the what's called the authorized version it will say god does not accept and i don't know what it translates it but see literally it's actually saying god does not God does not accept a man's face. It literally says that. The face. And what it's saying, and what Paul's trying to get at, see, when Paul talks about, when Paul lays down the principle, God does not accept on the basis of externalities. That's not how he accepts people. He's actually talking about the apostles. So he's not talking about image. He's not talking about light things. He's looking at the apostles with all their achievements and with all of their credentials. And what he's saying is, the acceptance of God does not relate because externalities has to do with your doing, but internalities have to do with your being. And doing has nothing to do with how God accepts. God does not accept on the basis of your doing at all. And then he says, those men, that's the Jerusalem apostles, added nothing to my message. I was listening to a tape of somebody who was preaching on this. I listened to a sermon tape on this. And the minister said, it was Dick Lucas of London. no more important statement in all the book of Galatians. I went to Jerusalem. I told them my message. And the Jerusalem apostles listened, and they added nothing. Now, here's the reason why it's so important, such an important statement. First of all, let's just take a look at the particular situation, and then we'll see how it's a universal problem in principle. But first, we have to understand the particular situation. These false teachers, these false brothers that and the freedom. What were they doing? They were not saying, you don't need to believe in Jesus. Oh, no. They said, believing in Jesus is just fine, but you got to add something. In Acts chapter 15, we see this whole thing, this whole problem that Paul's in the middle of in Galatians is laid out. And in Acts chapter 15, verse 1 and verse 5, you'll see it. These teachers got up in chapter 15, verse 1. They say that the Gentiles, pardon me, unless you are circumcised according to the custom taught by Moses, they said, you cannot be saved. And then in verse 5, it says the Gentiles must be circumcised and required to obey the law of Moses. So they were saying, fine. See, remember, these were false brothers. That means they were inside the church. They were saying, oh yes, you have to believe in Jesus, but you have to add something. You're not really saved. You're not fully a Christian. You're not completely acceptable only by believing in Jesus. You have to believe in Jesus, but also this. Now, the thing that they were saying that had to be added was the circumcision and the law of Moses. And when you first read that, and you see Paul saying, we don't have to obey that, a lot of people get confused because they say, wait a minute, was Paul actually saying to his new Gentile converts, get this, you don't

you can do anything you want you can lie, you can cheat, you can steal, you can do it all is that what he was saying? no and because we know from his letters he was not saying that he was not telling people they could disobey the ten commandments, that means that these false teachers who were opposing Paul could not have been pushing that's not what they meant when they said the Gentiles have to obey the law of Moses they weren't pushing that because Paul wasn't failing to push that not that the Gentiles had to obey the moral law. Now listen carefully. But they also had to obey the ceremonial law. Not that they just had to obey the moral law. Don't cheat. Don't lie. Don't steal. Don't kill. But also they had to obey all of the ceremonial laws about not eating all these various foods that you have in the Old Testament. Not wearing certain fabrics. And there's just zillions of things that have to do, the ceremonial law, these regulations have to do with what you eat And where do you go? The moral law sets the adherent apart ethically. But the ceremonial law set the adherent apart culturally. Do you hear that? The moral law made you different ethically, but the ceremonial law made you different culturally. You look different. You smell different. You ate different. Everything was different.

Well, what was the purpose of those laws? You say, yeah, that is very interesting. What are the purposes of those laws? Well, if you read the Old Testament, you will see that those were called the clean laws. And all those ceremonial regulations were clean laws, in that, if you didn't do them all, and there were just tons of them, you couldn't touch a dead animal, or you were unclean, you couldn't eat certain things, you were unclean, you couldn't do... A nocturnal omission, you weren't clean. A menstruation, you weren't clean.

There's hundreds of these things. And what does it mean that you weren't clean? You couldn't go into God. You couldn't go to the tabernacle. You couldn't go to worship. You couldn't go to the Kahali assembly.

Now you say, what was the purpose of that? There were two purposes. The one purpose was, when you read the Old Testament, and as I've been trying to do for a long time, you realize that the purpose of the clean laws was to show a person, and there was no better way to do it than this, There is absolutely no way you can make yourself acceptable to God. That was the purpose of the clean laws. That there's no way to do it. Because you see, if you were trying to obey, and all the Jews did, the ceremonial laws, not only did you spend all of your time thinking, I can't touch a Gentile. I can't touch an uncircumcised person. I can't eat with uncircumcised people. I can't do this. I can't touch a dead body. There's all those things you had to do. And when you went to the tabernacle, in spite of all that work, somebody still had to sacrifice for your sins. You still had to have a blood offering. You still had to have an atonement. You still had to have... I mean, all that work, and you'd go in, and you still weren't there. My goodness. In fact, you know, the high priest had to do extra washings and all kinds of clean laws for the high priest. And yet, before the high priest went back into the Holy of Holies on the Day of Atonement once a year, there was a special offering done for what? Anybody remember that? I haven't preached on this in a while.

where it says, make sure that when the high priest goes back there that you have a special offering for the iniquity of his holy things. No matter how hard he's tried, no matter how hard you've tried to make yourself acceptable and clean, you'll never do it. And that was the purpose of the clean laws.

And there was another purpose of the clean laws, and that is, it was sort of training wheels for the people of God in their infancy, because the clean laws set the Jews apart culturally. culturally. So you were totally different culturally. So no matter where you were, it kind of put a hedge between you and the pagans around you and made it tough to fall in love, made it tough to enter into business partnerships, and made it very tough. And it was a way of keeping the Jews from being seduced away from the true God into idol worship and so on. But now the Bible says, now let me just read it to you. In Hebrews, it says this about the ceremonial laws. They were only a matter of food and drink and various ceremonial washings, external regulations applying until the time of the new order. And then, listen, sacrifices and offerings God was not pleased with, though the law required them to be made. But he sets that aside, for now we have been made holy through the sacrifice of Jesus Christ once for all. And in Colossians 1.22, we have this astounding ceremonial language. now, not maybe, maybe then, but now, he has reconciled you to Jesus Christ to present you wholly in his sight without blemish and free from accusation. Now listen, if people say to me, oh, so you're saying that the ceremonial laws are annulled. We don't have to honor them, but we have to honor the moral law. No, I'm not. I want you to honor the purpose of every law in The purpose of thou shalt not lie, what is the purpose of that? The purpose of that law is to get an honest heart in you and the only way to honor it is to comply with it. The purpose of the law that says you mustn't eat pork,

the purpose of that law is to get you to see that you need a savior, that you can never be clean and that you need to reach out and seek. Now that the savior has been revealed, comply with that law is don't you dare do it. In fact, the way you can really dishonor the clean laws is to try to keep them, because they have been utterly and absolutely fulfilled in Jesus Christ. They haven't been annulled. You're keeping them today. When you go to the Lord's Supper, you're going to do this tonight? How dare you? I tell you how you dare. But now he has reconciled you to Christ to present you wholly in his sight without blemish and free from accusation. Now, it remains to be asked just this. Paul, therefore, of course, is saying, if you add anything to Jesus Christ as a requirement for being clean, say, I have to believe in Christ, but I also have to do this, I also have to do this. If you add anything to make it acceptable, you've destroyed the freedom and you've become a slave. Now, he was fighting against the circumcision party. And for most of us, that's not an issue. But here's what is an issue. I tell you this. Galatians is showing you that the problem in your life, the main individual problem and the main root of the corporate problems that we have in relationships is that we're trying to add something to Jesus as a requirement for being acceptable. We're trying to add something. Let me just kind of lay it to you quickly. politically, Paul is telling us here that if you are in bondage, if you're in slavery, if you're not experiencing liberation of the spirit, it's really because you're trying to do something that the Jerusalem apostles wouldn't do. And that he was, that was the triumph of the day. That was the triumph. They added nothing. They didn't say faith in Christ, but we want you to be circumcised. We want you to be baptized. We want you to do this. We want you to do that. No. Faith in Christ, period. And anything else destroys the freedom. Well, for example, number one, unless, pardon me, if you add to Jesus Christ to make you acceptable before God, number one, it'll bring you into spiritual bondage. In other words, if you are doing this, and you're doing this fully, you may think you're a Christian, and you're not. I mean, it should really bring on the back of our heads to read, back of our necks to read chapter 2, verse 4, which says, false brothers. In other words, these people, because they said, faith in Christ is not enough to make you acceptable and clean. You've got to do other things. Paul is saying, they thought they were brothers, and they weren't.

It's pretty frightening. In other words, I'll put it to you this way. I know people Christians for years. And they've never broken through. They don't seem... They've gone through these religious phases of incredible work.

And religiosity. And then they completely fall out. And they just lose all sense of any kind of connection with God. And they fall off for years. And they may come back and they work real hard and you never see them again. And it's pretty clear they're not breaking through. And they're trying. Why? George Whitefield wrote a sermon years ago, or he preached a sermon years ago, called The Method of Grace, and he laid this out pretty well. He says, before you can speak peace to your hearts, you must not only be sad for your sins, you must not only be troubled for the sins of your life, but likewise you must be troubled over your best duties and performances. When a poor soul is somewhat awakened by the terrors of the Lord, Lord. Then that poor one, being born under a covenant of works, flies directly to a covenant of works again. As soon as he is awakened and he senses his need for God, he says, I will be mighty good now. I will reform. I will do everything I can. And then certainly Jesus Christ will have mercy upon me. And as Adam and Eve hid themselves among the trees of the garden and sewed fig leaves together to cover their nakedness, so the poor sinner, when awakened, flies to his duties and his two performances, to hide himself from God. But before you can be certain that Jesus Christ is in your heart, you must be brought to see not only that your sins must be done away with, but your righteousness. You must see that all your duties, all your righteousness, all put together are so far from recommending God to you, so far from being any motive and inducement to God to have mercy on your poor soul, that he will see them to be filthy rags and that God hates them and cannot put away with them him in order to recommend you to his favor. What is George Whitefield saying? I'll tell you what he's saying. The average person, when they think they're coming to Christ, they come and all they do is repent of their sins. And I don't know how many times I've had people who say, I don't know, it just doesn't seem to be working. I don't know. Over the years, I've tried. I'll say, well, what have you done? Well, I received Christ as Savior. What does that mean? I've asked him in my life. What does that mean? Well, I've really given myself to him. What does that mean? And usually, asked him for forgiveness, and now I promise to live for him. In other words, I got Jesus Christ and as good a life as I can get.

In other words, people, when they think they're giving themselves to Christ, it's Christ plus something. And Whitefield says, until you've not just asked for forgiveness for your sins, but you've also forsaken your best deeds. And so you see, not only do you have to be saved from your sins and forgiven for them, you've ever done. Whitefield goes on. He says, I don't know what you. How about you? But I know this. I can't pray, but I sin. I can't preach, but I sin. I can do nothing without sin. My repentance needs to be repented of and my tears to be washed in the precious blood of our dear Savior. My best duties are so many splendid sins. And you know what? He's not just saying that you have to repent of your best duties because of their imperfection. He's not just saying that. Of course you never repent well enough and you never...

but he's really saying you also have to repent because until you understand the gospel down to the bottom the reason you do good deeds he said is to hide yourself from God the reason that you're working so hard is basically is basically to say I know it's okay you can have favor on me now look at how hard I'm working now you can forgive my sins now you can listen to my prayers what are you trying to do you're trying to be your own savior in a sense

and there's plenty of people who are still in spiritual bondage because what they've said is I believe in Jesus Christ and I'm trying my best and they put the two together and as a result you know how you haven't even crossed the line into faith there's no freedom at all but secondly on the other hand the whole book of Galatians is Paul's way of saying you can be a real Christian and understand the gospel and still functionally be psychologically in bondage. Because even though you say up here, and you really believe and you really understand, you have a grasp, that I am accepted because of Jesus Christ plus nothing, yet functionally in your heart, there's something. There's something else. Many years ago, I listened to a tape of a friend of mine named Sue Lutz gave a talk at some women's retreat some years ago. kept the tape. It's a great tape. And this is essentially what she said. On that tape, she says, with our mouths, we say Christ alone is what makes me acceptable. But in our hearts, we add Christ and financial freedom, Christ and approval of my parents, Christ and the respect of or the happiness of my children, Christ and the acceptance of a peer group, Christ or something. Now here, Here. But anything you add to Jesus Christ as a requirement for being happy will become a slave master that will strangle you, will drive you into the ground, will hang you by the neck until dead.

May I repeat that? But anything you add to Jesus Christ as a requirement for being happy will become a slave master that will strangle you, will drive you into the ground, and will hang you by the neck until dead. Why? Because you have to have it. You're in bondage.

I mean, if it's Jesus Christ plus happy children, then when your children are unhappy, you're gone. You're knocked out. You will turn howling and insufferable. You're still a slave. You haven't found the freedom in Christ. Then lastly, just one more. You see, this is the problem. Adding to Jesus Christ is a requirement for acceptability. If you don't understand it at all, you're still in spiritual bondage, even though you think you're a Christian. If you understand it, but functionally you still can't get away from it, you're in psychological bondage. And then lastly, the one thing that we see here that's a universal is that there's always going to be a tremendous danger on the part of Christians to fall into cultural bondage. We may not say you must be circumcised and obey the law of Moses, but it is so easy for us to take either our particular cultural values and just sort of move on up and say if you're a real Christian, if you're a full Christian, you'll look like us. us. You'll think like us. You'll like our kind of music. You'll smell like us. You'll be as punctual as we are. You see, there's all sorts of things the Bible says absolutely nothing about. They're just, they're just, they're just, they're, in a sense, just cultural things. Every culture is different about punctuality. Every culture is different about how you dress. Every culture is different about whether you interrupt. Didn't you read William Sapphire in the New York Times magazine today was saying, one of the things that's hard for Midwesterners and Southerners The New Yorkers seem so rude. They're always talking to you, interrupting. But that's the way we show that we're interested, he said. That's the way we show that you're worthy of our attention. And you say, how easy it is to say, what rude people up there. And listen, there's plenty of Christians, plenty of Christians that just can't wait to get out of New York once they've had their two years here to get it on their resume. And whatever it is. Now I want to get out in a place where people are really nice. And when I push, when I press, you can't know a person's heart. and as a result, I can't say this. I can't blow it. I can't blow the whistle on any individual, but I certainly can blow it on you as a class because there's just too much of this to go on, that too much of this is going on to believe it's every time that people have good reasons for it. Basically, Christians have taken their cultural values from where they are, and they just don't like the fact that in here, people are so different. They're so strange. are so weird. They're not like me. The point of this passage is, anyone whom God has accepted freely plus nothing, we must accept freely plus nothing. Not, I'll embrace you as a Christian brother or sister, as long as you start to look like me and act like me and think like me and like the same kind of music, like the same kind of art, and like to read the same kind of book. Otherwise, I say, when is that person going to really grow in grace?

Cultural bondage, psychological bondage, spiritual bondage, all of our problems come from this.

You know what? When Paul went up, he was scared. You know why? He wasn't scared that he was wrong when he says, I was afraid I was running my race in vain. He didn't say I was wrong. He wasn't afraid of that. And he wasn't even afraid that the Jerusalem apostles were wrong. He wasn't afraid that they didn't know this. What he did was, what he was afraid of was that they were going to chicken out. They were going to be intimidated the way, as we're going to see later on, Peter actually was under one circumstance. They'd be intimidated by these false teachers. They're going to back away. And there would have been two Christianities. There would have been a culturally encrusted Christianity and then an absolutely free Christianity that can go into every culture and to say, you do not have to change culturally in order to become a Christian. If you're African, you can be an African Christian. You don't have to become a Jew first. If you're Greek, you can be a Greek Christian. You don't have to become a Jew first. The liberation. But there would have been two churches and nobody would have known who was right. And Paul went up and he stood for the truth. And you know what? Do you worry? Do you worry about, is God going to take care of me? Do you realize what was at stake on that day? and God took care of you. He's not going to give up now. Don't add. Add nothing to the message. Let's pray. Our Father, as we go to receive from you

the bread and the cup, we realize what you have given us. we do not come on the basis of anything but Jesus Christ we come on the basis of Jesus Christ plus nothing in fact if we come recommending ourselves in any other way we shouldn't be here but we pray Lord that as we receive the bread and the cup you might pour out your love into our hearts again and teach us these things afresh we pray it in Jesus name, Amen

We're going to confess our sins first.

I think what I'd like you to do, even though we're going to pray this very, very classic prayer, and I want to pray with you, as soon as we go into silent confession, ask yourself in what way am I adding what am I adding to Jesus Christ as a requirement for me to receive life joyfully that's another way to put it what am I adding to Jesus Christ as an ability as a requirement
