I'm very sorry about last week. If you were here, I wasn't. I was supposed to be, and I had a stomach flu that came on me so fast that I thought Saturday night I'd be able to get through it, and Sunday I just was unable to come. I am, and I am quite sorry, but I'm a fairly recovered, jumpy stomach, but okay, it's good enough. Would you turn with me to the passage on which the teaching is based? What we're going to do for just three or four weeks before Good Friday and Easter is we're going to be looking at the events in the life of Jesus Christ that led up to his crucifixion and asking a simple question. What does the death of Jesus mean?

Virtually everybody in the world knows that the message of Christianity is Jesus died for us. But why? What did that accomplish? What does it mean? What's the death of Christ mean? Let's read this passage, which is the incident of Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane. Matthew 26, verses 36 to 46.

Then Jesus went with his disciples to a place called Gethsemane, and he said to them, Sit here while I go over there and pray. He took Peter and two sons of Zebedee along with him, and he began to be sorrowful and troubled. Then he said to them, soul is overwhelmed with sorrow to the point of death. Stay here and keep watch with me. Going a little farther, he fell with his face to the ground and prayed, my father, if it is possible, may this cup be taken from me. Yet, not as I will, but as you will. Then he returned to his disciples and found them sleeping. Could you men not keep watch with me for one hour, he asked Peter. Watch and pray so that you will not enter into temptation. The spirit is willing, but the body is weak. He went away a Father, if it's not possible for this cup to be taken away unless I drink it, may your will be done. When he came back, he again found them sleeping because their eyes were heavy. So he left them and went away once more and prayed the third time, saying the same thing. Then he returned to his disciples and said to them, Are you still sleeping and resting? Look, the hour is near, and the Son of Man is betrayed into the hands of sinners. Rise, let us go. Here comes my betrayer. This is God's word. Now, there's something that happens in the very beginning of this narrative that begs for an explanation. Thoughtful readers over the years have been surprised by it, puzzled by it, and so we're going to ask what it means, and we're going to ask two questions that follow up on that. So here, we're going to ask three questions of the text. Why the magnitude of Jesus' agony? Why the immediacy of his agony? And what difference does it make to us? why the magnitude of his agony, why the immediacy of it, of his agony, and what difference does it make to us. First of all, why the magnitude of the agony? And that's the thing that begs for an explanation. Take a look and see. Verse 36, we see Jesus went with his disciples to a place called Gethsemane, which is an olive grove, basically. It means olive press. And he said to them, and that's the body of his disciples, the 12 of them, I go over there and pray. And he took Peter and the two sons of Zebedee. Now what that means is Jesus came in since to the outskirts of the garden of Gethsemane. And then he said to most of his disciples, you wait here and I'm going to go deeper in to the garden and pray. And he took with him Peter, James, and John. Now here's what's so odd. And we want to, I want to show you the puzzle. Verse 37, the very first clause actually has a present progressive verb and the NIV translation It says essentially, it says literally, he was taking Peter and the two sons of Zebedee along with him when he began. Something began. As he was walking from the outskirts of the garden into the place where he was going to pray, before he got there, something began. Something started. And what was it? Now, all three gospel writers, Matthew, Mark, and Luke, when they are describing this, they tell us something that's really astounding. First of all, Jesus begins to experience something that he calls overwhelming sorrow. Something, an anguish, an agony, a spiritual and mental anguish so strong he feels he's sinking under. And when he says, my soul is overwhelmed with sorrow to the point of death, we've got to realize, we've got to take him seriously. He is saying, something has come upon me that makes me feel it's going to kill me. Before I even get to the cross, it's so overwhelming. I feel like I'm going to die under this. It says, he began to be sorrowful and troubled. One commentator, a guy named B.B. Warfield, says the word troubled is a word for horror. And what that means is, as he was walking along, something came over him, a crushing, overwhelming, devastating sense of horror, a mental and spiritual anguish and agony that made him feel like he was dying. The gospel writer Mark adds, it says, as he was going to the place, he was astonished. And there's nothing more astonishing than to say that something is astonishing the Son of God. And Luke tells us one thing that none of the other gospel writers tell us, When Jesus came back each time from praying, Luke tells us that what the disciples saw was that not only was Jesus drenched with sweat, absolutely soaked, drenched with perspiration and sweat, but that there was blood in his sweat. The Gospel writer Luke says there was blood in his sweat, and that is very unusual, but it is possible. Blood can come out of your pores when you're sweating if you're experiencing a severe shock. and so you see something came down on Jesus Christ that utterly astonished him sent him in incredible horror and agony he was reeling with it he was leveled into the dust with it now the reason this is such a puzzle let me just let me make it more of a puzzle by telling you two other quick things that have made it a very great puzzle to people over the years first of all what began to happen to him couldn't mean that he got new information mean that on the way, he started to say, oh my, I really am going to die. He knew he was going to die. He knew all about it. He'd been teaching his disciples, and he didn't know, he didn't just think he was going to die in general. We know by reading the gospels that he, in a very, very detailed and a very comprehensive way, he knew why he was going to die. He knew he was going to suffer for sin, and he told his disciples about it. So whatever came down upon him and hit him wasn't the knowledge,

die. And the other thing that puzzles people very much is the contrast of Jesus here with

hundreds, thousands of other people who have died for what they believed with poise and peace. You know, maybe one of the most famous ones is if you go to Oxford, England, right down on, right on the high street, right on the main street, there's a monument to a couple of people who were burned at the stake for their faith. And they're very famous because of the last words of them. They were tied up and they were about to be burned and the flames were coming up. And one of them, this is back in the 17th century, one of them, Nicholas Ridley, I guess, no, I'm wrong. I think it's the 16th century, right? Oh boy, I better look it up. But anyway, one guy, Hugh Latimer, turned to the next guy who was bound up there and about to be destroyed by fire, Nicholas Ridley, and he says these famous last words. He said, be of good cheer, Master Ridley, and play Lay the man. We shall this day, by God's grace, light such a candle in England as I trust shall never be put out. Stirring words. But why do I quote them right here? Here's why. There's no bloody sweat. There's no falling... You know, you, Latimer, and Nichols really aren't falling to the ground and saying, God, do I really have to do this?

They're not crushed.

why would the followers of Jesus Christ, why would hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of followers of Jesus Christ die better than Jesus? See, the question is, what came down on him? Why the magnitude of his agony? And the answer is very simple, in a way, because he actually tells us all about it three times. What is it that he is wrestling with? What is it three times he goes to the Father and says, The thing that he keeps mentioning is the cup. Do I have to drink the cup? Do I have to have a cup? And the third time he talks about the same, it says. What's the cup? Well, the Bible is pretty clear on this, and commentators are pretty clear on this. The cup in the Bible is the judicial wrath of God on human evil.

In those times, in the ancient times, very often people were executed with a cup, a cup of terrible poison, a cup of poison that went in and basically emulsified your insides, tore them to pieces, ate you up from the inside, and you died. Perhaps the most famous execution by the cup of poison was Socrates, of course. But because that was the method of execution for many people, the Old Testament, the Hebrew prophets came to use the cup as a metaphor for the wrath of God on human evil. And so there's many, many, many references. So for example, Ezekiel 23, we read this, you shall drink the cup of ruin and desolation and tear your breasts. Isaiah 54, you will drink the cup of his fury and stagger. So the reason why Nicholas Ridley and Hugh Latimer and, you know, all the other people who died for what they believed in, didn't die the way Jesus is dying, didn't fall to the ground, didn't find this horror coming down, but they didn't face the cup. They didn't face the justice of God against all human wickedness and evil, which was just about to come down on him. But, we haven't quite answered our question, what began in verse 37? What began as he was walking along? Didn't he know about the cup? Sure he did. Didn't he know that he was going to suffer that? Of course he did. Absolutely he did. Well, then what's going on here? Well, what's going on here is pretty simple. As he began to walk, he began to experience the wrath of God. He began to actually experience God turning away from him. See, how does God punish sin? The Bible tells us, it's almost poetic justice, the sinful human heart wants to get away it wants to be away from God it wants to be able to be its own master and so the way God punishes sin is to give the heart what it wants it cuts what God does 2 Thessalonians 1 verse 8 he will punish them they will be shut out from the presence of the Lord and the majesty of his glory in other words what God gives the human heart the punishment the ultimate destruction is to be cut off from the presence of God and the reason that's destruction is because we were built presence of God, we need the presence of God, like the flowers need the sun or they wither, we need his love, we need his glory, we need to serve him, now, what was happening to Jesus, it didn't even occur to me, really, until this morning, as early this morning, I got up and I was meditating on this passage, what was Jesus doing, in verse 37, on the way to the place of prayer, well, knowing Jesus, Jesus is one who lived in fellowship with the Father, Jesus is one Someone who got all of his power and his grace and his love from his relationship with the Father. And therefore, it just occurred to me this morning, as he was walking to the place of prayer, he would have started praying. He wouldn't have waited until he got there. In his heart, he would have turned to the Father the way he constantly does, and that's when it came down, and that's when it hit him, because when he turned in his soul toward the Father, there was nothing there,

One commentator, Bill Lane, who's written a great commentary on Mark, puts it perfectly when he says this, The dreadful sorrow and anxiety, then, out of which the prayer for the passing of the cup springs, is not an expression of fear before a dark destiny, nor a shrinking from the prospect of physical suffering and death. It is rather the horror of one who lives wholly for the Father, and who came to be with the Father for an interlude before his betrayal, hell rather than heaven open before him.

Jesus Christ turned toward the Father and there was nothing there but the abyss. There was nothing there but the darkness that opens out into an infinite nothing.

He turned expecting heaven and the Father and there was hell. Jonathan Edwards in his great sermon on this passage called Christ's Agony, puts it very vividly as he is wont to do. And he says, the agony that Jesus experienced in the garden was caused by a vivid, bright, full, immediate view of the wrath of God. God the Father, as it were, set the cup down before him, which was vastly more terrible than Nebuchadnezzar's furnace. He now had a near view of that furnace into which he was about to be cast. He stood and he viewed the raging flames and the glowings of its heat, that he might know where he was going and what he was going to suffer. He felt what Ezekiel said. You shall drink the cup of ruin and desolation and tear your breasts. He felt what Isaiah said. You will drink the cup of his fury and you will stagger. Jesus Christ turned to the Father and there was nothing there but the beginning of the experience of wrath and hell and forsakenness and he tasted it and he staggered. He's staggering. And he tore his breasts. Now, what this means is, here's the answer to the first question. Why the magnitude of his agony? The answer is because of the passive obedience of Jesus Christ, which is a theological term, but the theologians mean by that Jesus Christ, in the garden, began to experience, passive, that means he received, onto himself, all of the justice and wrath of God on human evil was all coming down on him. And he was beginning to experience it. Now there's a second question that immediately leads to, but first, first, first, can I just suggest two little quick but important theological implications of what we just said. Implication number one. Years ago, studying the Garden of Gethsemane, when I was still a minister, I know this might shock some of you, when I was still a minister, I was a pastor, preacher, albeit a young one.

it was in the Garden of Gethsemane that I came finally to grips I made my peace as it were strange way to put it with the wrath of God I might shock some of you that a minister, a preaching minister was struggling with the very idea of a God of wrath a God who sends people to hell the very idea of it something that really I struggled with and I wrestled with I hope that doesn't shock you but I did and then it was studying the Garden of Gethsemane finally came to peace with it because I realized this, the reason why people get rid of the idea of hell and wrath is because they want a loving God. They want a more loving God. They say, I can't believe in hell and wrath because I want a more loving God. And I came to realize in the Garden of Gethsemane that if you get rid of the idea of hell and wrath, you have a less loving God. Because if there is no wrath by God on sin and there is no such thing as hell, not only does that make, actually make what happened to Jesus inexplicable, Jesus staggering the way he is asking God is there any other way sweating blood means that he was wimpier than hundreds of his followers if there was nothing like that but here's the main thing the main thing is if you don't believe in the wrath and hell that means it trivializes what he's done

it trivializes what he's done if you get rid of a God who has wrath and hell you've got a God who loves us in general but that's not as loving as the God of the Bible the God of Jesus Christ, who loves us with a costly love. Look what it cost. Look what he did. Look what he was taking. You get rid of wrath and hell, he's not taking anything close to this. And therefore, what you've done is you've just turned his incredible act of love into just something very trivial and very small. I came to realize that if I got rid of the idea of wrath and hell, I didn't have a more loving God, I had a less loving God. I had a God who loved me without any cost to him at all. At all. So that's the implication. And by the way, if the anticipation of these sufferings, if the very taste of these sufferings sent the Son of God into shock, what must it have been to drink them to the bottom?

Now, a second question that comes up almost immediately, you have to ask this question. Okay, that's the answer to the magnitude of his agony. But the second question comes up right away, and that is, why the immediacy? Why did God begin to let him experience it in the garden? Why this, in a sense, preliminary experience of it before the cross? And this is where Bill Lane, the commentator, and Jonathan Edwards, the preacher who I've already quoted you, this is where they really helped me a great deal. And here's the point. It's one thing to say, I'm going to do something, but you don't know how bad it's going to feel until you get there. Jesus Christ begins to taste the wrath of God, to experience the lostness that he's going to go through when no one's around.

He's not nailed to the cross yet. He's not in public. Nobody's around. Everybody's asleep. And what that does is it means that the obedience, in order to do what he had to do to love us and to obey God, was vastly, millions of times harder than if he'd only begun to experience it just as he got to the cross. and Jonathan Edwards put it like this. He said,

If Christ had not fully known before he took it would not have properly been his own action as a human being. And get this. But when he took that cup then, knowing what was in it, so was his love to us infinitely the more wonderful, and so was his obedience to God the infinitely the more perfect. Look at what he had to do. He did two things in the garden. And those two things were he loved God with all his heart, soul, strength, and mind, and he loved his neighbor as himself. Let's look at the second one first. Look at him. people who he's got to die for, experience this incredible thing for. Peter, James, and John are the representatives of the human race who are at his feet. And three times Jesus looks at them and says, I've never asked you to do anything for me, and now I'm asking you. This is the moment of my greatest need. This is the greatest test. I only want one thing. I don't want to face this alone. alone. How human. I don't want to face this alone. Would you just stay awake with me? I'm not asking for advice. I'm not asking for anything. Just stay awake. Three times they fall asleep. Now, let me, God could have easily arranged it so that night they would have not only stayed awake, but they would have sat around him and they would have said, Lord, I can't believe you're doing this for us. How wonderful. You would die for us. Oh, we'd be lost if you didn't do it. It's just so wonderful. It's so incredible. Let me hug you and kiss you. But they didn't. They fell asleep on him. Three times. Every time he's walking out, it's like the father is saying, that's the human race for you.

Swallow hell for them. Take into yourself this spiritual atomic bomb and let it explode for them.

He put this enormous pressure on Jesus. And he did. He loved us. But that's not the only thing. The second thing he did was, God was putting down in front of him, God was saying to him, obey me. Obey my will. And Jesus Christ says, all right, but get this.

Every other time in the history of the world, before or after, when God comes to a human being and says, obey me, Obey and you will live, right? Obedience is the way of life, right? Obey me and I will welcome you. Obey me and you'll become like me. Obey me and I will reward you. I mean, that's what he's always saying. That's what he said to the first Adam. The first Adam in the Garden of Eden, he said, See the tree, obey me about the tree and you will live.

Only once in the history of the world did God say to a human being, Obey me and I will send you to hell.

obey me and I will crush you to powder. See, that's the reason for the last verse of Tom Jennings' setting of the George Herbert, the sacrifice. You see, sin began in a garden, now salvation is coming in a garden. Sin began when the first Adam disobeyed God about a tree, and now salvation is coming when the second Adam obeys God about a tree. But you see, the first Adam was just told, and you will live. You just don't need it. But the second Adam, God says, obey me about the tree and I will nail you to it and I will destroy you on it. And that's the reason why you have Jesus Christ in this poem saying, All ye who pass by, behold and see, man stole the fruit, but I must climb the tree, the tree of life for all, but only me. Was ever grief like mine. Now what's going on? Never in the history of the world has somebody had to love God and love his neighbor under this kind of stress. And therefore, what you have is the first perfect act of obedience in history. Perfect fulfillment of the law. He loved the Lord, his God with all his heart, soul, strength, and mind, and his neighbor as himself. And not only that, I don't believe there's ever been any place where somebody obeyed God and got nothing out of it. That's real obedience, isn't it? I mean, when I say to my kids, obey me, and they say, just what's in it for us. And I'll say, I could tell you, but then it wouldn't be obedience.

Then it would be a bargain.

Only when you're doing something just for God, or when you're doing something just for your neighbor, are you really doing it for them and not you. Jesus Christ is the only person who perfectly obeyed. You know the old story? People always, whenever I tell this story, I always get a few confusions, because it's not in the Bible. It never happened. Don't come up to me afterwards and say, where was that? But it's a great story. And it goes like this. Jesus Christ was sitting around with his disciples and he looked at them and he said, carry a stone for me.

They all looked at each other. They didn't get it. And because they didn't get it, Peter looks around and he picks up the smallest stone he possibly can, just picks it up. Okay. Puts it in his pocket. All right. I'm in compliance. And Jesus says, now follow me. and it was very hot, and it was very dry, and very, they were all very sweaty, and finally, around lunchtime, Jesus Christ says, okay, everybody sit down, and they all sat down, he says, get out your stones, they got out their stones, he waves his hand, and they all turned to bread, and he said, now, have lunch, and here's Peter looking at his little mini muffin, you know, and on his terrible heat, and he eats it, but he says, oh, okay, now, I get it, okay, okay, now, I got it, why didn't he tell me to start with, and so, Jesus Christ stands up, and he says, says, now, I want you all to carry a stone for me, and Peter goes to everybody, he looks around, he says, now, I got it, so he takes this huge boulder, and he's putting it on his shoulder, and he's just about crushed under it, and he's walking along, can hardly walk along, but he's saying, I can't wait for supper, and so on he goes, and finally, around supper time, Jesus brings them all to the shore of a river, and he says, now, everybody, throw your stone in the river, and they all throw their stone at the river. And then Jesus says, now follow me. And he begins to walk away and they're staring at him and he says, who were you carrying the stone for?

Now nobody has ever actually carried a stone for Jesus, but Jesus carried a stone for you. But let me tell you what the stone was like. It did crush him, utterly crushed him. He got nothing out of it.

In other words, he obeyed God just for God because God said to him, obey me and I'll kill you, as it were. He loved us just for us because we fall asleep on Him all the time. And therefore, what we have in the Garden of Eden is the fullest salvation. Let me give you a little theological lesson. Jesus Christ, you don't just have in the Garden a dying Savior, but a doing Savior. You don't have just Jesus Christ dying the death you should have died, but living the life you should have lived. If you thought, up to now, and some of you have, that all Jesus Christ did for us when he died was that he took our sins upon him, our punishment upon him, so that when we believe in him our sins are wiped out, that's right, but wake up, that's not all he did because if all he did was the passive obedience of Christ, that is, he took upon himself our sins, that means when you believe in him your sins are wiped out but it's up to you now to live a good life and to earn Jesus, God's blessing and love and welcome but that's not all he did, he didn't just live a life die the death we should have died. He lived the life we should have lived. He's not just a dying Savior, but a doing Savior. He didn't just save us with the passive obedience of Christ, but what the theologians call the active obedience of Christ. In other words, he perfectly obeyed so that when we believe in him, not only do our sins go into his account, not only does God treat him as we deserve to be treated, but his righteousness goes into our account. This kind of righteousness. In the garden, he was receiving from God what we deserve, and we were getting from God what he deserves. And this means that you are supposed to live life with your head up. This means you do not have to be worried about who is rejecting you. This means that you're supposed to be reveling in the fact that he's ravished with your beauty, not just simply tolerating you because Jesus wiped out your sins and now you're pardoned. Do you see? The second question is, why the immediacy of this agony so that his obedience could be matchless? You know, there's a place where Jonah said, all thy waves and thy billows have gone over me, yet I look to your holy temple. And Jonah was obeying in spite of being under an ocean of water. But Jesus Christ was under an ocean of God's wrath and obeyed. There's never been obedience like this. He's not just a dying savior, but a doing savior. Now, lastly, I've much of the answering, but the question is, what difference does this make to us? All difference in the universe. On the one hand, you have a model here, do you not? This is how you're supposed to live. Look at the integrity of Jesus, or let me put it to you this way. What are you like in the dark when nobody's looking? Is it the same as when you're in the light when everybody's looking? Is there anything you do in the dark that you wouldn't want your friends to see in the light? Look at Jesus Christ. There's integrity. He is exactly the same when no one's looking as when people are looking. He's a model of integrity. Also, he's a model of prayer. Look at how he's emotionally honest. He doesn't go into God saying, oh Lord, this will be hard, but I'm just praising your name. I know that somehow I'll get through it with your help. He's emotionally so honest. He pours himself out. He says, I don't want to do this. He's a son of God, saying, I don't want to do this. You talk about emotional honesty. And yet, he knows that the purpose of prayer is not to bend God's will to our will, but to mold our will to his. And look at him loving people who let him down. Is there anybody who's fallen asleep on you? Is there anybody who really has let you down in a moment of your greatest need? What have you done with them? Have you just written them off if you pulled back? How can you do that when he's done on this for you who fall asleep on him over and over so what a model for relationships what a model for prayer what a model for personal integrity but only as a model it will kill you as a model alone it will kill you however if you see him not just being your example but being your substitute and your savior that's the difference because you know why I have trouble really obeying him really obeying him you know why I have trouble and why you have trouble I believe Whether you're a Christian or you're not a Christian or you don't know who you are exactly, why do we have trouble completely giving ourselves to him, utterly and completely laying ourselves out, unconditionally, without reserve, utter surrender? Why don't we do it? Trust. It's a lack of trust. First, on the one hand, we don't trust him, right? We're afraid that he might not have our best interests in mind, that he might ask us to do something that won't be really good for us. So on the one hand, we don't really trust him, but on the other hand, we don't really trust us. ourselves. One of the reasons why we don't give ourselves wholly and utterly and completely is because we're afraid of failure. We're afraid that we're going to let him down. We're afraid that we're going to wear out his patience and love. This will heal anything. All your lack of trust in him and all your lack of trust even in yourself. Look, here is a love that hell came down on, his love for you, hell came down on it, and it didn't eat through it, his love for you, hell came down on it, and it didn't break it, then nothing will, so on the one hand, that'll heal your trust problem, on the one hand, if he would do this for you, how dare you doubt him, how can we do it, how can you, how can you even begin, he's not out for your best interest, but on the other hand, here's why I want you to give yourself to Christ utterly and completely tonight. Because if you fail, do you think somehow that's going to wear through his love for you? Can you believe that after the Garden of Gethsemane, Jesus Christ is going to look down at you at any time ever and say, well, that does it. If this didn't do it, how are you going to do it? If this didn't eat through his love for you, how is this going to eat through his love for you? Nothing will. This is the love you've been after. This is the love you need. No friend love, no married love, no career success, no critical acclaim, nothing will satisfy you like this. Nothing will turn you into a person of integrity. Nothing will make it possible for you to deal with the injustice in your life because you see, he dealt with a great injustice. Nothing will help you forgive people falling asleep on you because we fell asleep in the ultimate way on him. Nothing will help you be able to handle the little cups of suffering in your life understand because he took the big cup. Nothing will help you trust him like seeing the ultimate love. The father says to him, as Jonathan Edwards puts it, the father in a sense gets next to him and says, here's the cup you are to drink, son. This is the furnace into which you are going to be cast if they're going to be saved. There is no other way. Either they perish or you perish. See how terrible the heat is. See what pain and anguish you must endure. Will you still go through with it? Is your love such that you will go in? And Edward says, did Jesus turn to his father and say, why should I, who am so great and glorious a person, why should I go plunge myself into such dreadful, amazing torments for people who cannot ever requite me for it and who will not even stay awake with me in my hour of greatest need? Why should I do this for them? But he didn't.

He loved us.

Look at him dying in the dark for you. Adore him. Fall down and adore him for it. And when you get up, you'll be more like him. Let's pray. We ask, Father, that you'd help us tonight to give ourselves to you holy because you gave yourself holy to us. To not give ourselves holy to the one who gave himself holy for us

is not just immoral, it's stupid. It's a crucifixion of the intelligence. We ask, therefore, that you would help us to respond to your son proportionate to the way he responded to us. Let us give ourselves to him in confidence that through both his death and his life, both his doing and his dying, he has purchased for us an absolute, great, and complete salvation. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.
