In your bulletin we have printed the passage on which the teaching's based. Now this is the middle part, it's sort of the heart, in some ways the most dramatic part, of an event, an account, that actually is given over all of Acts chapter 27 and 28. So before I actually read the heart of it, I need to set it up a little bit so you really know the whole story of what happened. This is the account of Paul, the apostle, who was on a voyage to Rome as a prisoner. The reason he was a prisoner was that there were charges against him, brought against him by the religious leaders of Jerusalem. And in order for him to actually get any kind of safe trial, his life was in great danger, he appealed to Caesar so he could get a fair trial. And as a result he was on a ship and they were sailing to Rome. And they'd spent quite a bit of time. And trying to get to Rome in the early weeks of the trip, the wind was against them, so by the time they get to Crete, there was absolutely, they were way behind and they were very, very far away. And it was at that point near the end of September. Now when you're in the Mediterranean, I wouldn't know this, but I'm learning this from reading the commentaries and so on. Any time after about October 1st, it's very dangerous in the fall and the winter to, in those days, to take a voyage. In the Mediterranean, because tremendous storms came up. And Paul urged them to stay at Crete and not try. His heart forebode him and so on. But the sailors said, no, we want to go. We absolutely want to go. And they set out. And they were almost immediately after they set out, completely enveloped in a nor'easter. It was a hurricane force. And the storm went on and on and on. It was very bad and it had gone on for days. And in verse 15, right before the passage we're about to read, we see they've been driven along for days. In verse 17, they actually had to frap the boat. They took cables and they put them around the whole hull. They ran them underneath the water and up on the other side, just so the boat wouldn't be destroyed by all the waves. We know in verse 19, they threw almost overboard almost all the cargo, almost all the food, trying to lighten the boat so they wouldn't sink. But then in verse 20, we finally read this. When neither sun nor stars appeared for many days and the storm continued, we finally gave up hope. Now, verse 17. Verse 21. Let's read this. After the men had gone a long time without food, Paul stood up before them and said, Men, you should have taken my advice not to sail from Crete. Then you would have spared yourselves this damage and loss. But now I urge you to keep up your courage because not one of you will be lost. Only the ship will be destroyed. Last night, an angel of the God whose I am and whom I serve stood beside me and said, Do not be afraid. Prayed Paul. You must stand trial before Caesar and God has graciously given you the lives of all who sail with you. So keep up your courage, men, for I have faith in God that it will happen just as he told me. Nevertheless, we must run aground on some island. On the 14th night, we were still being driven across the Adriatic Sea. And when about midnight, the sailors sensed they were approaching land, they took soundings and found that the water was 120 feet deep. A short time later, they took soundings again and found it was 90 feet deep. Fearing that we would be dashed against the rocks, they dropped four anchors from the stern and prayed for daylight. In an attempt to escape from the ship, the sailors let the lifeboat down into the sea, pretending they were going to lower some anchors from the bow. Then Paul said to the centurion and the soldiers, Unless these men stay with the ship, you cannot be saved. So the soldiers cut the ropes that held the lifeboat and let it fall away. Now what happens in the next couple of verses is simply that they do run aground on a sandbar off the coast of a little island really called Malta. The ship is destroyed by the waves, but all 276 passengers in the boat swim to shore and not one of them is lost. And they swim to shore in that place in Malta, which this very day is called St. Paul's Bay. And that's the end of the story. Now, why are we looking at this? The reason we're looking at this is because something that continually comes up in my own pastoring, a friend of mine, people, questions that come to me, something actually, if any of you have ever gone to question and answer time, which we have after the service, is something that comes up all the time. All the time. Very continually. And actually, if you've been in the Q&A, you may have heard some of the things I'm about to tell you tonight. I finally decided we really need to address this with a text. And that's this. Do things happen in spite of what we do? Are things fixed? Is everything going to happen? Should we be like the Calvinist who, when he fell down the steps, he got up and he waped his brow and said, I'm glad that's over with? Is everything fixed? Or, like Dr. Brown said at the end of Back to the Future,

he said, Your future is whatever you make it, so make it a good one. You know? And who's right? Thank you very much. Who's right? What is the relationship between our choices and history and the world around us? Does history and the world cause us to choose, or do our choices cause history? That's the question. What's the relationship between our choices and the plan of history? Do things happen this way? Is there anything we can do to avoid them? And after we've made a mistake, do we say, I've screwed up. I've screwed up my life forever and the lives of all the people around me. How do we look at that? That's pretty important. And this text, surprisingly, is really one of the best places, if not the best place in the whole Bible. Though the Bible speaks about this in many places, in some ways, this crystallizes one of the best places of all. Now, let me show you, first of all, the basic answer. And then let's look at, first, the intellectual and the practical ramifications. First the intellectual, but then the practical. Now, here's the... Here's the answer. If you read this, you'll realize, if you study any kind of text and start asking questions, you'll see some pretty interesting things. And here's the interesting thing. How in the world do you reconcile what happens at the beginning and what happens at the end? Now, here's what's happening at the beginning. In the beginning, Paul says, he gets up and he tries to say all the men who had lost hope. He says, men, take courage. Why? Last night, an angel of the God whose I am, and who I serve. The God whose I am and who I serve sent me an angel. Now, the word angel means a messenger. You know the word evangel or evangelism? It means the good message. And an angel is a messenger. A messenger from God came and gave Paul a prophecy for his encouragement and the encouragement of everyone. And that prophecy was, the ship will be lost, but not a single one of us will die. Now, you have to understand for a second that when Paul claims to have a revelation, when Paul claims to have a revelation, to have a prophecy, that Paul is getting a glimpse of the future, the history of what's going to happen from God himself, that's serious business. In the Bible, it's serious business. In the book of Deuteronomy, chapter 18, verse 20, it says this. This is God speaking to the people of Israel. He says, a prophet who presumes to speak in my name, anything that I have not commanded him to say must be put to death. And then he says, you may say to yourselves, how shall we know when a message has not been spoken by the Lord? If what a prophet proclaims in the name of the Lord does not take place or come true, that is a message the Lord has not spoken, and that prophet has spoken presumptuously. Now, you see, first of all, it's serious business because to give a prophecy and it not come true was punishable by death in Israel. And that means that if God really said this to Paul, then it has to happen. See? If God really said this to Paul, it has to happen. It must happen. God himself says it. Common sense tells us. In fact, Paul actually goes ahead and just tweaks that in there. You know, and he says, so keep up your courage, men, for I have faith in God. It will happen just as he told me. So unless Paul's absolutely wrong, unless he's a false prophet, this has to happen. Okay? You know, in 1 Samuel 15, verse 29, there's an additional side to this. In the Old Testament, it says, God is not a man that he should change his mind. And if you think about that, that's common sense too. You only ever change your mind if something comes up that you didn't foresee. And if God would ever change his mind, it would only be on the condition that something he hadn't thought of or something he hadn't known was now brought to bear in this situation. If he knows all things, if he's really God, how could he change his mind? So God has said, this is what's going to happen, and it has to happen. But, now a little later, on the 14th night, we were still being driven across the Adriatic Sea, and really this is the most dramatic part of the whole event. Very dramatic. What happens, of course, is that the sailors begin to realize that we're getting near ground, and because they're absolutely out of control because of this hurricane forescale, they realize that if they run aground, if they run aground on a sandbar, if they run aground on rocks, they could be destroyed and they could all die. So we say, you see here it says, fearing that we would be dashed against the rocks, they drop four anchors. In an attempt to escape from the ship, they decided, let's escape, they let the lifeboat down, pretending they were going to lower anchors from the bow. Now, somehow, somehow, Paul figured this out, and you can, this is dramatic, see? The wind, the rain, you know, the lightning, the waves, and Paul runs to the end of the boat, and he goes to the soldiers. See, there were soldiers on here. He says, the centurion and the soldiers, if these men leave, we're going to die. If the sailors leave, the only people that know what to do on the ship, we're going to die. So the soldiers came up, and it was almost comical, they cut the boat, and they turned to the sailors and say, you're staying. Now, what's the point of this? What does this teach? What it teaches is, this is the reason why the Army-Navy game, to this day, is fought so bitterly. No, it's not what it teaches. It's not the point. The point is, Paul does not say,

hey, we're going to be saved. I don't care if you go in the lifeboat. We're going to be saved. It has to happen. God, whose I am, and who I serve, told me this, and God, it will happen, just as he said. Therefore, take a trip. Get in the lifeboat. Take a swim for all I care. It doesn't matter. It has to happen. We've got to be saved. It is fixed. It is determined. And therefore, it doesn't matter what you do. That's not what he says. No, not a bit. He says, if you act irresponsibly, we're going to die. Get back in this boat. Now, the reason that shocks us is because this view of the Bible is counterintuitive to the deepest structures of human thought. We do not believe these two things can be true. We either believe our choices matter, and therefore, our future is whatever you make it. Or, the future is set. Things are certain. History is not something we affect, and therefore, our choices don't matter. But Paul will have none of it, and the Bible will have none of it. Paul says, on the one hand, I am absolutely sure this will happen just as he told me. On the other hand, you've got to act responsibly or you're going to die. Your choices matter. Your decisions matter. On the other hand, you are not master of your own fate. You are not captain of your own soul. You are not affecting history. God alone is running history. And that's it. Now, I would like to point out for a minute here, we don't see how that can fit together. And as a result, there are two very, very strongly competing views. Let me just take a second on this. I don't have much time tonight, but a second on this. There are two very, very vital and very, when I say vital, I mean smart people believe these things and smart people are propagating these things. And I want you to see here tonight that both of them are spiritually pathological. In fact, intellectually, I don't think they make sense, but they're bad for you, both of them. And yet, the natural human heart believes one or the other must be true. It has to be one or the other. They have to. It's an either or. It can't be both. It has to be one or the other. Now, the one view, I guess you could call fatalism. And fatalism, it says that the world in history, in a sense, run us. We don't affect it. We don't set it. It sets us. Now, there's very ancient approaches to that. You know, one of the, perhaps the most famous of the ancient approaches to fatalism is the story of Oedipus. Before Oedipus is born, there's an oracle, a prophecy. And the prophet says, this young man will kill his father and marry his mother. And of course, the father hearing about this decides, well, I'm not going to let that happen. So when the baby's born, he gives him to somebody, bundles him up, says, take him out of the wilderness and kill him. Notice how many wonderful, some of the best old stories go like this. Well, the man who bundles him up, takes him out of the wilderness, can't kill him. And so gives him to somebody else and he grows up somewhere else. Guess what? Not knowing who his mother and father are. And as a result, in spite of all the efforts to avoid the destiny of Oedipus killing his father and marrying his mother, in the end, he kills his father and marries his mother. He comes to town, not knowing who they are, gets into the, all this, and that's exactly what happens. In the end, there's this terrible, terrible tragedy. Now, if you think that's only what the ancients said, and that is, your destiny is fixed despite your choices. Your destiny is fixed despite your choices. You've got to understand that today, that is a very, very vital and very influential position. I may have, I think I mentioned this in the morning service some weeks ago. If you go back to the first week in December of 96, you'll read an article in Forbes magazine, Forbes ASAP, I think it is, A-S-A-P, by Tom Wolfe, called Sorry, Your Soul Just Died. And as usual, it's a humorous article, but it's a very important article. And what he says is, people are beginning to realize what it means to say we're the products of evolution, we're the products of evolutionary biology. And he says, neuroscience and sociobiology are saying that what you are is strictly the result of natural selection, adaptation of the species to the environment. Everything about you is that. And therefore, everything is a matter of your genetic code. Everything about you is fixed. Everything is a matter of brain chemistry, which is based on your genetic code. See? Your intelligence, your sexual preference, your IQ, whether you're going to be a criminal or a philanthropist, it all has to do with that. You have no choice in the matter. And if you think that's not serious, you know, just this last week, The Nation, which is a very prominent periodical for the left, cover story, The New Creationism. Now, when you hear the word creationism, you think people who are conservative Christians that don't believe in evolution. Oh, no. The writers here start this way. They say, when social psychologist Phoebe Ellsworth took the podium at a recent interdisciplinary seminar, she was already feeling rattled. Colleagues presented to her and warned her that the crowd was tough and had little patience for the reduction of human experience to biology. So she had a plan. She would preempt the criticism by putting her playing the critic, offering a social history of psychological approaches to the topic. But no sooner had the word experiment passed her lips, quote unquote, the hands shot up. Audience members pointed out that the experimental method is the brainchild of white Victorian males. Ellsworth agreed that white Victorian males had done their share of damage in the world but noted that, nonetheless, hey, their efforts had led to the discovery of DNA. But the argument, he says, the discussion collapsed when the answer came back, you believe in DNA? And what, the point is, if biology is all there is, if there's no God and we're just the product of biology, what do you have out there in nature? You see the strong eating the weak. That's it. That's the way it is. You're going to do what your biology tells you to do and that's it. The left is beginning to understand that means we have no basis for protesting oppression and we have no basis for saying the individual needs to be free because you're going to be whatever your nature is. And what the article is trying to say is that, you see, the doctrine of evolution in a sense is just as threatening to anybody who believes human beings have freedom, dignity, and value. Very interesting. Very big issue. But, on the other hand, you do have Back to the Future. You do have, you see, I know that when Doc Brown, you know, said at the very end of the last of the three movies and the whole thing of Back to the Future, the reason I'm not even going into it is because it's so famous and so well-known that almost everybody here knows something about it. It's about time travel, going back into the future, and changing things around, nooging things around so your parents aren't nerds when you come back to them. You know, making everything better. You know, some choices make things worse and they screw everything up. Some choices make things better and you, you know, and at the very end, I can just see it now when Doc Brown says, you know, Marty, your future's whatever you make it. Make it a good one. And I'm sure the focus groups that watch it, watch that, you know, that original trailer, they all, they all wrote down positive groovy vibes. I'm having positive groovy, I like that. Americans like to hear that. We like to hear it. We like to hear that we absolutely can make our history and our world whatever we want to make it. Now, I, those are two extremely popular, very modern, and yet absolutely clashing views. And I would say they're both death. They're both death. First of all, like I said, the left and conservatives are coming to understand that if it's really true we have absolutely no freedom, if it's really true we're just a product of evolution, that's death. And nobody, here's where the nonsense comes in, nobody can live that way. Talk to a fatalist sometime and say, I'm about to punch you in the nose. I can't help it. Now, I am not trying to make light of this. This is a serious thing. I knew you'd laugh, that's why I said it, but that's not the only reason I said it. I'm trying to say to you, nobody, in the deepest recesses there being, really, really can believe that we've got to do something like that. You protest injustice. You say it's not just, you shouldn't do that. You mustn't do that. Anybody who says, we don't have any kind of freedom, the very next second shows that at your deepest level, you know that's not true. You're living a lie. But on the other hand, if somebody convinced you, if somebody came and really convinced you, you can make your future, whatever you want it to be. My friends, if you are a reflective person at all, and you come to believe that, you would not get up tomorrow morning. You wouldn't get out of bed. Oh no. 25, 26 years ago, and I mention this when I, when this comes up in question and answer, 25 or 26 years ago, I spent at least six months praying desperately to God saying, please open her heart so she'll marry me. And it wasn't Kathy. It was somebody else. Now, what if I had gotten the future I wanted? You know, what if I'd gotten the future I wanted? Think, in my case, the glory I would have missed. And it's because of things like that. And that doesn't take that much reflection. Surely all of you have desperately wanted things that would have been the worst thing for you. What idiot would want freedom like that when you don't have the wisdom or character to go with it? Do you think it's okay to give three-year-olds Uzis without the safety catch-on? That's what it would be. It would be no different. And you know what? If you really were a freest, and people have to be, I mean, I'm not, this isn't a profound thing. This isn't so, anybody who's a real freest says, you can make your future whatever you make it. You'd never get out of bed in the morning. You should be frightened. You should be frightened spitless. You should be paralyzed, but you're not. Nobody really can live like either of these. You know, intellectually, they kind of make sense, but frankly, that's not the way anybody can live. Nobody can live that way. What the Bible gives you is this. It says, our God is so great, and our God is so good, that, first of all, as this article is basically pointing out, if there is no God, you're not free. You really aren't. There's no freedom. It is the existence of God that establishes freedom, and he establishes, and he says, I will make your choices real, but on the other hand, I will do it in such a way that my plan for history is still carried out. I will not let you screw up your life. I will not let you muck things up. I will not let you muck up my plan to eventually bring history to a great climax, and my plan for you. If you live, love me, and you belong to me, if you can say, the God whose I am, I got a plan for you, and you can't screw it up. On the other hand, if you make wrong choices, if you do stupid things, there'll be brokenness in your life. It'll be bad for you. You see, the two things are both there. Now, you say, intellectually, how can you live that way? Well, now, here's the point. Intellectually, I still don't get it. I don't get it. There's mystery. But how else can you live? You've got to, on the one hand, you've got to know that your choices mean something, and you do, frankly, if you don't let it get screwed. If you don't let yourself get screwed up by some non-biblical and contradictory intellectual construct that says there is no freedom. On the other hand, you mustn't, mustn't go to the other side and say, hey, I know what's going on. I am master of my fate. I am captain of your soul. No, you're not. Common sense tells you. It tells you're not. And therefore, this approach, whereas maybe intellectually it's filled with mystery, that both are true, both are true, yet,

it's the only practical way to go. There is such incredible comfort in this. Unbelievable comfort. And I want you to have it. You know, somebody actually reminded me of a story that I had forgotten almost totally about. You know what Romans 8, 28 means? It means, this is what it means. Romans 8, 28, all things work together for good to them who are called according to his purpose and who love him. All things work together for good to them who love him. You love. You must love. You're called to love. Make the choice. You must make the choice. There'll be bad consequences if you don't make the choice. On the other hand, all things are working together. Years ago, I forget exactly how many years ago. I won't think, but I'll talk about it. One night, somebody in a building in Washington, D.C. forgot to close the door all the way. You know, sometimes you close the door and you don't pull it too so it really latches. So somebody just failed to pull it two millimeters more. Didn't latch. So five or ten minutes later, an hour later, it sort of popped open. Later, a security guard noticed it was open and went in and discovered something that really, really rocked the world. Now, this happened in the Watergate building. Just because somebody didn't bring that thing all the way in. They didn't bring the door all the way closed. That was all. But because of that, Nixon fell. Because of that, Gerald Ford became president. Otherwise, that wouldn't have happened. Gerald Ford's son went to seminary with me. Because Gerald Ford's son was at seminary at that time, he was able to work it out so a man who had been called to teach at the seminary was able to, he was having immigration problems and he was able to come. He was British. And he was able to come. He was able to get there in time for me to get him the very last semester of my year. Because of that class, I decided, I'm going to be a Presbyterian. I've finally gone over the top. Yep, I'm going to do it. If I hadn't done that, there wouldn't be a Redeemer. Has Redeemer been of any help to you? Has Redeemer been of any use to you? Has Redeemer had any impact on you or your lives? You know why? Somebody forgot to close a door. Now, now wait, now listen. Back to the Future is not logical. Back to the Future says you go back to the future and you find two or three critical events and if you can just change this or that event. Ray Bradbury had it much smarter. Ray Bradbury, who's a very smart science fiction guy, wrote a story years ago about a time traveler who goes back in time, walks out of the time machine, steps on a butterfly and suddenly the whole city disappears and there's a desert. And then takes two more steps and steps on a snail and suddenly a whole different city disappears. And he suddenly, see, everything is so interlocked. Everything's interlocked. Everything would change everything. And therefore, there's absolutely no way that we're in charge. There has to be a God in the cockpit. And there's no meaning to anything at all. And I can punch you in the nose, but we know that there's meaning in things. There is a God and if you belong to him and if you give yourself to him is working all things together for your good. Watergate happened for you. Now,

practically speaking, how do you really, really use this information to deal with the storms of life? Just two or three things here. You see, the reason that Paul was so calm in the storm was because he knew this. He knew God is in charge and yet he also knew, he was also decisive. You see, he was a leader, man. He was a leader. He was decisive. He was not passive toward the world. On the other hand, he was not scared of anything. And that's what it's going to take to be a great person. And if you're either into fatalism or freeism in any kind of way at all, you're not going to be a great person. He was a great man. He was larger than life. He strode through life. Life didn't happen to him. He happened to life. And it's because, because he understood this. But let me just break it down for you. First of all, first of all, he recognized the greatness of God. You see, he recognized how great he was because he says, the God whose I am, now that is a way of saying, I'm just a servant. It's so strange, but in Christianity, the lower you go, the more you give up your freedom, the more freedom you've got. The more, gee, the more of a slave you make yourself, the more of a royal personage he'll make you. The lower you go, the higher you'll go. The greater the greatness will be, the God whose I am and whose I serve. Okay? Secondly, now secondly, think about this too. If you're going to use this to really face the trials and troubles of life, you've also got to consider the gospel. Now, where's the gospel? What is the gospel? Well, the gospel is this. Paul doesn't say, the God who I'm trying, the God who I'm trying to reach. You know, David Martin Lloyd-Jones, that old British pastor used to say, one of the ways in which he used to deal with people's hearts, one of the ways he used to, I mean, assess people's hearts. He would sit down and he would say, are you a Christian? Are you a Christian? And if the person said, well, you know, who am I to say, but I'm trying. I'm trying. And he, and rightly so, he'd say nine times out of 10, when a person says I'm trying, it shows they haven't the slightest idea what it means to be a Christian at all. Because a Christian is someone, a Christian is not trying. A Christian is a status that's received. Paul does not say, I'm hoping. No, I am his. I'm his. I am his and he is mine. We, we have each other. And I'll tell you this. When the storms of life hit you, unless you believe that, this is what's going to happen. If you're just trying to reach God, trying your best, you know, hoping that you're living the life you ought to live. When storms hit, one of two things is going to happen. If you feel like you've been living a pretty good life and the storms hit, you're going to say, how dare you? You're going to get mad at God. You're going to get bitter against life. Or if you don't think you've been living a very good life and the storms hit, you're going to feel like it's because, I'm being punished. You see? And you're going to have despair. If you don't know this gospel and the storms hit, either you're going to be mad at God and bitter against life or you're going to be mad at yourself. You'll either hate him or you'll hate yourself. Or, like most of us, we'll kind of go back and forth depending on the day. And there'll be bitterness and there'll be despair. But that's not Paul, see? Because a Christian says, A, I'm not mad at God because frankly, I deserve worse than this. But B, on the other hand, I know that this is not just revenge or punishment or nastiness on God's part. Because I know the reason I'm going to get through this storm is because Jesus Christ was thrown in the real storm, the only storm that can really hurt me. Do you remember the story of Jonah? In the book of Jonah, there's this great storm that's coming because Jonah's disobeyed God and there's this storm and everybody in the boat is in jeopardy. God throws, pardon me, Jonah is thrown into the storm and it goes away. He goes into the storm, saves everybody else. And you know what? Jesus himself says, A greater than Jonah is here. What is he saying? He's trying to say, I was thrown in to the only storm that can kill you. I was drowned by the only storm that can overwhelm you. I received the justice of God. And therefore, any storm here, is just blowing you into God's arms. Any storm here, is a bad thing that God's going to bring to a good. Anything here, this is not your punishment. No matter how bad the storm is. Because all of God's punishment, all of his fire, all of his justice, fell into the heart of Jesus Christ. There's none of that left for you. Do you understand? You know how the hymn goes? His love in times past forbids me, to think. Now what love? What Jesus did on the cross. His love in times past forbids me to think. He'll leave me at last in troubles to sink. It's a little bit of dog roll. It's a John Newton hymn. Never was put to music. You know, his love in times past. You remember when Jesus was in the boat and the storm was coming up and the disciples said, Master, don't you care that we're dying? And you know what Jesus says? Don't you care that I'm dying? That's really what he's saying there. You know, when you're in the boat, your kids are little. You do everything for them. You slave for them. It's incredible how your life changes, right? For them, they have no idea what they're costing you. No idea at all. And then you come up to them and say, Honey, we have to go home early. I know I told you we could play here, but we can't play here. And they pitch this incredible fit. And you know, every so often it gets to you. You say, you don't know what I have done for you. You do not know. Haven't I given you enough love in the past? You want to say, you know, try this on a three-year-old. Haven't I done enough love on you? Haven't I given you enough? Haven't I proved that I love you? Haven't I shown that I love you? I'm putting you through something that's unpleasant, but haven't I proved it to you? No, of course the kid doesn't get it, but you need to. We need to. You see, his love in time past forbids me to think. He'll leave me at last in troubles to sink. By prayer, let me wrestle. Then he will perform. With Christ in the vessel, I smile at the storm. Let's pray. Our Father, we ask that you would teach us how to be wise about these things and how to see that shipwrecks are not the real shipwreck. Jesus Christ received the real storm, the only storm that can really sink us, and therefore all other storms are blowing us into your arms. We pray that you would help us now to understand that. Lord, I know I feel squeamish. I know there's some people here probably facing things that are just extremely evil, just tremendously evil. And you are not the author of evil. But we know this, that you will weave into, even the worst evil, you will weave that into a redemptive pattern for those who trust you. You will not let that evil destroy the people who turn to you and say, the God whose I am and who I serve. So Father, we pray that you would help us to see that. And we pray that you would grant that we would have this wisdom. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.