This scripture this morning is from the book of Acts, chapter 2, verses 40 through 47. With many other words he warned them, and he pleaded with them, Save yourselves from this corrupt generation. Those who accepted his message were baptized, and about 3,000 were added to their number that day. They devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and to the fellowship, to the breaking of bread and to prayer. Everyone was filled with awe, and many wonders and miraculous signs were done by the apostles. All the believers were together and had everything in common. Selling their possessions and goods, they gave to anyone as he had need. they continued to meet together in the temple courts. They broke bread in their homes and ate together with glad and sincere hearts, praising God and enjoying the favor of all the people. And the Lord added to their number daily those who were being saved. This is the word of the Lord.

Christmas, of course, is about the birth of Christ. and what you're reading here in Acts chapter 2 is about the birth of the Christian church. I'm here to show you that the two are intimately related, that in many ways, what happened at Christmas explains what happens in the early church, and what happens in the early church explains what Christmas is about. I'd like you to notice, first of all, what there was about the earliest Christian community that made them so different from the cultures surrounding them. And then secondly, I'd like to look at what the source of that difference was. So what the difference was, and then secondly, what the source of that difference was. What, what was the difference? Now you notice in verse 40 and 41 where it talks about the fact that the very first day at the resolve of the very first sermon, 3000 people were converted and brought into the church, brought into faith. And this, of course, is something that we know. It's a simple historical fact that for the first three centuries of the life of the Christian church, Christianity grew explosively. It grew to the point where it actually displaced the older Greco-Roman empire and culture itself and way of thinking. It was that powerful. Why? It was because the first Christians, and then as they grew, the Christian community was attractively different. That's the only possible explanation. It was attractively different. Well, what was the difference? I would suggest that in this very famous description of the earliest church, that the key to understanding that difference is in the very beginning of verse 42, where it says, they devoted themselves. Now, in the Bible, the word devote means to give In fact, even in English it means that. To devote something means you give it away. You set it apart. You set it aside. And that's the reason why some translations take this passage and actually say in verse 42, they gave themselves. They gave themselves away. They gave themselves away, of course, to learning and to worship and to fellowship and a number of practices, as you see here. but beneath that they gave themselves away to God and especially to each other. In other words, what made the early Christians so unusual was this principle of radical unselfishness that had really never been seen before. It pervaded the whole way in which they did everything. Radical unselfishness. That's the principle that you see through the passage. So for example, down here, of course, in verse 44, it says, all believers were together and had everything in common, selling their possessions and goods they gave to anyone as he had need. Now, that was one of the most striking things to the community, to the culture. Lucian of Samosata, who was one of the early Greek philosophers and opponents of Christianity, he disliked it. And some of his writings tell us one of the reasons why so many people were offended by Christianity. Usually the people in power were offended by Christianity. Lucian says about, he's talking about Jesus now. He says, their founder, that means Christ, the founder of Christianity, their founder taught them that they should be like brothers to one another, and therefore they despise their own privacy and view their possessions as common property.

And we see this right here. Instead of being selfish about their goods and their property and their power. They share, not only with one another, but with all who have need. And by the way, as we're going to see as we go along further in Acts, this wasn't literal communism. They didn't give all their assets into a common purse and then get a salary from the central committee, but it was a spiritual communalism. It was a radical unselfishness when it comes to their possessions and their goods. But that's not all, because the word together keeps coming up. Why? Everyone was filled. It says all the believers were together, verse 44. Every day they continue verse 46, they broke bread in their homes and ate together. And remember who they were. If you were here the last couple of weeks, you know this, that Jerusalem during the great holy days and festivals was a gathering place for pilgrims from all around the world. And they all spoke different languages. They were from very different cultures. They're the ones who have become Christians, and now they're doing everything together. In spite of their cultural differences, in spite of the language, themselves to each other. They're giving themselves away. And of course, we know that even though most of these people were Jewish believers from different cultures around the world, by the time you get to Acts 13, you will see African, Asian, Jew, Greek, Roman, all coming together and being together, radically together. So there was an unselfishness, and the Christians were willing to give away their emotional involvement, give away their money, give away their time, and they just give to each other and create this community. Now, I've come far enough for you to start to say, okay, that's very warm and touching, but why was that so different? Is that really that different? Yes.

Kenneth Scott Latterette, who is one of the great historians of early, of Christianity, has an essay in which he tries to understand why Christianity was so different and why it was so attractive, why it was so electrifying to people and why it spread. And he makes a list. He says, here's another reason for Christianity's success. Quote, more than any of its competitors, Christianity attracted all races and classes. Judaism never quite escaped from its racial bonds. Christianity, however, gloried in its appeal to Jew and Gentile, Greek and barbarian. The Greek and Roman philosophies never really won the allegiances of the masses. They appealed primarily to the educated, the morally and socially cultured. Christianity drew the lowly and the unlettered, yet also developed a philosophy of its own, which commanded the respect of many of the educated. Christianity, too, was for both sexes, were primarily for men. And the church welcomed both rich and poor. And here's his conclusion. Latteret says, no other religion took in so many groups and strata of society. The question must be raised, why this unprecedented comprehensiveness came to appear first in the world in Christianity? Now, I want to press that question on you for a couple of minutes here. He says, the question has to be asked, why these ideas, why this unprecedented comprehensiveness first came into the world through Christianity? And this is not going to be easy for us to answer, and I'll tell you why. Because it's hard to transcend your cultural moment and your historic moment. We're looking at this from where we stand right now, where the ideals of Christianity are not new anymore. And so you look back at this and you say, why was this so different? Why was it so different? Historians will tell you several things. Number one, the idea that you should love your enemies instead of killing everybody that wrongs you. The idea that you should forgive indefinitely. The idea that you should be trying to reconcile with your enemies instead of always taking revenge on them. First came from Christianity. No other culture, no other religion produced that. Secondly, other religions did talk about an energy coming out of Christianity was unprecedented for that. Christians essentially invented hospitals. They invented orphanages. They invented poor relief. Thirdly, the very idea of universal human rights, that every human being, no matter what race or class, no matter how weak, no matter how talented, no matter how physically disabled, that every human being had universal human rights. That is an idea that historians now are pretty much proven came out of Christianity. It didn't come out of any other culture. It didn't come out of any other religion. And when the early missionaries went out and talked about loving your enemies and forgiving people and reconciling and caring for the weakest of society, including the poor. When they went out, not only did the Greek and the Roman elites, like Lucian of Samosata, as well as the tribal chieftains and kings of pre-Christian Europe. See, when the Christian missionaries went out and the elites heard this idea, all these ideas, they said, this is crazy. A society based on Christian social ideals will fall apart. apart. They said, for example, society is based on the idea of respect for strength. So if they see leaders forgiving instead of taking revenge on people, things would fall apart. And besides that, the talented and the strong have always been the ones who triumph. The strong eats the weak. That's the nature of things. They thought it was crazy. And yet what happened was the ideals of Christianity, Listen, that all human beings have dignity, including the poor, that all people must be loved, including your enemies, that you should live a life of loving service and unselfish service. Those became the social ideals. They triumphed, right? And that's the reason why they make sense to you today. The only reason why any of those ideas make sense to you is because they came from Christianity. They came from nowhere else. Now you understand the importance of the question? Why? Why was it that Christianity produced these ideas and brought them, you might say, to market, brought them into the human race, brought them into the world? And the answer is, or at least one way to answer the question is, Christmas. Christmas. When Jesus Christ was about to die, just the night before he was about to die, he prayed a prayer in front of his disciples. And the prayer went like this. Here's just one part of it. his Father and he says, you sent me into the world. That's Christmas. Jesus Christ was the Son of God who came into the world, was born as a human being, born in the manger. And he says, you sent me into the world, he says to the Father. And then he says, so for their sake, I sanctify myself. And that word sanctify is a word that means I devote myself. You sent me into the world, Father, to give myself away for their sake. and that's what he did. When Jesus Christ was born into the world, when he left all of his greatness and all of his power behind, what was happening at Christmas? He was giving himself away. He was taking his hands off his life. He was devoting himself. He was emptying himself of his glory

so that we could become beautiful. He was becoming of no reputation so that we could have a name with God for all eternity. losing all love, including his father's love. He was rejected by everybody so that we could be loved by God and live in love with God and others forever because he took the punishment that we deserved for our selfishness. Now, when Jesus Christ did this and Christians came to understand that he did this, do you know what that meant? Christians realized for the first time in history, and by the way, the last time, There was a faith coming and saying. This is ultimate reality. No other religion before or since. No other philosophy has ever said. That God gave himself away. That this is the heart of ultimate reality. Is to not hold on to your power. Not hold on to your wealth. Not hold on to your glory. But give it away. Give yourself away to other people. Give yourself away for others. See if God did this. At Christmas. That is radical. That is astounding. become weak and become mortal and die on the cross to atone for our sins, if he would devote himself and give himself away, that's radical. And that changes everything. It changes absolutely everything. There's a place where, there's one of the Christmas carols, we're not singing it today, but we will, that goes like this. Mild he lays his glory by. Born that men no more may die. Lay aside your glory, your honor, your interests is the heart of what happened to Christians when they understood the gospel, when they understood the reality of Christmas, they began to practice Christmas. And they brought ideals into the world that no one had ever thought of because it was based on their new idea of ultimate reality. Let me just show you how that worked out practically. Number one, if you lay your glory by like Jesus did, that means you get involved with the poor. that's not beneath you. You become unselfish with your things. We already said that. Number two, the way to lay your glory by like Jesus also means that you are not condescending. There are klutzy people in the world. There are foolish people in the world. There are irritating people in the world. And there are people who, for you to know them, do not help your resume. They do not help. They do not help you in any way. They don't know anybody. They don't open doors for you. And if you live in New York, you want to move with the movers. You want to spend time with people that can help you and all that. You were, if you're a Christian, you know, you were saved through the descent of Christ, the infinite descent of Christ from highness to lowness for you. And now how on the world could you ever be condescending to anybody else? No matter who they are, no matter what they look like, no matter what their pedigree. Do you see how Christmas, the reality of Christmas, changes the way you live? Thirdly, for example, it also means that when you see opponents, people that you dislike, people who have the wrong politics or the wrong religion even, if you know what Jesus Christ has done, if you see him on the cross dying and forgiving his enemies, even as they're killing him, forgiving them, that's going to affect how you live. I mean, if Jesus Christ is dying for means. How in the world, and if you say you're a Christian, how in the world can you go to their website and leave a nasty comment? But lastly, to lay aside your glory means to not worry about your face, not worry about shame, not save face. And that means that when you have a problem with somebody else, somebody else bothers you, and you have a tiff with them, don't you dare hold on to your glory. Don't you dare say, well, I was right. If that person wants to make peace with me, let them make the first move. No. Lay your glory aside. Say, I'm wrong. I was wrong. I'm sorry. can we do to make things right? If you grasp the cosmic reality of Christmas that God gave himself away, that will turn you into a completely different kind of person. And when a group of people who have changed like that get together, it's a new human society. It's a new humanity. Let me end like this. Let me say something to those of you who may be skeptical about Christianity and something to those of you who are not. For those of you who might be skeptical,

this idea that universal human rights and loving your enemies instead of revenge. The, this, I, your, your idea that these concepts came into the world through Christianity. I'd never thought of that. Well, I'll check out. I'm not sure I agree with you, but I'll check it out. Well, go ahead. You'll find it's true. But you say, well, even if I like those ideas, that ideals, that doesn't mean I have to believe in Christianity. No, of course. It's a free country. You don't have to be consistent because I want you to think about it. Where did those ideals come from? Do you think the Christians sat around saying, let's be really nice people. Let's be the nicest people the world's ever seen. And let's create humanitarianism. No, they were gripped by the fact that God had given himself away, that was ultimate reality. And if you want the practice, if you like the practices of Christmas, you need to believe in the facts on which the practices are based. And if you don't believe that Jesus Christ is God, come to earth. If you actually believe that the world is here by accident and you're just the product of random forces, I'm sorry, you're not going to be able to do what the early Christians did. Lastly, if you are a Christian, look at the kind of church that was. Look at the balance. They followed the apostles' teaching. That's theology. Good Presbyterian. Secondly, they had dynamic worship, praising God all the time. Hmm, that sounds like they're Pentecostals. And then thirdly, intimate fellowship, breaking bread with each other all the time. And then fourthly, radical, relentless evangelism. Every day people were getting converted. You see that? Now they sound like Baptists. And then, and they were giving away their poor, their money to the needy all the time. Now they sound like mainline people. Guess what? A really great spirit-filled and if we do all those things we will be more and more conformed to the image of the one who gave himself away for us let's pray thank you father for granting us a look into the connection between Christmas and a changed life now we pray that you would help us put these things into practice immediately as we offer up our gifts and our hearts to you we pray this in Jesus name amen Thank you.
