We're back to 1st John as we've been going through the book of 1st John this year. And we get to a new section, a new section of the letter. It's 1st John chapter 2 verses 18 to 23.

And let me read that to you.

Dear children, this is the last hour. And as you have heard that the Antichrist is coming, even now many Antichrists have come. This is how we know it is the last hour. They went out from us, but they did not really belong to us, for if they had belonged to us, they would have remained with us. But their going showed that none of them belonged to us. But you have an anointing from the Holy One. and all of you know the truth. I do not write to you because you do not know the truth, but because you do know it, and because no lie comes from the truth. Who is the liar? It is the man who denies that Jesus is the Christ. Such a man is the antichrist. He denies the Father and the Son. No one who denies the Son has the Father. whoever acknowledges the Son has the Father also. also. And this is God's word. My, well, you know, we've been away from the book of John for a little while. Last week we had a special meeting here and we talked about what is truth. And actually, we see as we pick up our passage, it's about truth again. But where have we been? In order to put this in context, let me remind you that as we've been moving through the book of 1 John, the letter writer of 1 John. Back in chapter 2, verse 3, John started to address a question. How do I know I can be a... How do I know I'm a Christian? How can one know whether you're a Christian or not? How do you know? Is it possible to know? And John said, it is possible to know that you're a Christian, to be sure. And he says in chapter 2, verse 3, we can know that we have come to know him. We know that we've come to know him. Now, a lot of people consider that arrogant statement. And I think for a minute before, just think for a second, do you think that's awfully arrogant? Do you think, my, someone who says, I know I know God. I know I'm going to heaven. I know I'm saved. I know I have his favor. That's so arrogant. Is that your view? It's very common. In fact, it's the typical view that many people who say, well, I don't know if there's a God, but if there is a God, surely you wouldn't be able to be certain because you would always you'd always wonder whether you had attained, but you must be tremendously arrogant. You must think you're hot stuff morally if you think that you know, if you know that you know God. And if you believe that, with all due respects, it shows you don't have an understanding of what it means to be a Christian at all. Because what it means to be a Christian is not so much what we do and what we say and what we believe as much as it is what God does, has done, and says and believes about us. Christianity is a standing. Let me ask you this question. Would you say, if you say to somebody, what country are you a citizen of? What country are you a citizen of? And if I said, well, I'm a U.S. citizen. And they say, are you sure? And you say, yes, I'm sure. How arrogant. says the person. You must think you're really something. How can you be sure that you're a citizen? Your response would be, well, you don't understand the nature of citizenship here. Either you have the rights of a citizen or you don't. There's nothing in between. There's no process. You might be preparing to be a naturalized citizen, but that doesn't mean that you're becoming a citizen. Either you are or you aren't. What makes you a citizen is whether you have the rights. Whether the government has bestowed those rights on you. Rights of citizenship and, of course, the responsibilities. And that's exactly what Christianity says. Christianity says, John chapter 1, verse 12, to those who believed on him, to those who received him, who believed on his name, he gave the rights to become children of God. And that's, there it is. To be a Christian is to have received those rights. To know that God has said, you are my child. from death to life. You either are in it or you're not. There's nothing in the middle. You either are justified by faith, that means you've been made right with God because you have received Christ and therefore his righteousness and his morality and his moral record has been transferred to you and you're accepted. You're either in or you're out. You're a citizen or you're not a citizen, not only the United States but of the kingdom of God.

But, so when a person says, I don't see how you can even possibly, how anybody can know you're a that you don't understand Christianity at all. But it is fair and right for a Christian to say, I know it's possible to know, but how do I know? How do I know I've made that transaction? How do I know I've made that switch? How do I know I've received the rights? And John goes into this by saying there are three tests. And through this chapter, he's given us the three tests. The first test was in verse 3 to 6 of chapter 2, in which he said, it's the character test. He says, the way you know you're a Christian is that your character changes. You become, in your behavior and lifestyle, like Christ you follow as example. The second test was the love test. Not only is your character changed, but you become a loving and compassionate person. We spent time on that. There was a little bit of a digression. Verses 12 to 14 is not another test, but it's a statement about the test. Chapter 2, verses 12 to 14 has to do with the fact that a Christian's a person who is growing. In other words, John says, I want you to know that there are these tests, but a Christian is somebody who's growing in character and growing in love. You see, it's possible for a person who's just temperamentally sweet, to mistake that temperamental sweetness for the love of God which grows out of a regenerated, reborn heart. And that's why John is really saying the way you know that this love is born of God is not just that you're nice, but that you're changing, that you're growing, that there's tremendous progress being made, that you're considerably more loving than you used to be, and so on. I mean, there's a tangent. Sometimes, and in some ways, but only some ways, there's an advantage, in just some aspects, there's an advantage to coming into Christian, to Christianity, uh, having been a complete mess. There are some advantages to having been a complete mess. If you come into Christianity out of a background of tremendous niceness, Sometimes it's not as easy to see the changes. If you come out of a background of a complete messiness, very often the changes are a little easier to see. And in that sense, sometimes the assurance can be stronger because you say, look at that. How do you account for that? I can't account for that unless I've gotten the rights. Unless I've gotten rights as children of God. So anyway, that was what 1214 was about. Now we come to the last of the tests. and we can take a look at this for a couple of weeks. And the passage that I just read actually is filled with a lot of interesting other issues. The Antichrist and how do we know that they were not of us for if they were of us they would have continued with us and this anointing of the Holy Spirit. But tonight we're just going to begin looking at the main thing and what the main thing is, this third test, this third way you know you're a Christian. It's tremendously blunt, it's really in your face And if any of you were here last week, we discussed how the modern contemporary world has more problem with the idea of truth than maybe any other idea, as we're going to see. And John is right in your teeth on this. He's right in your face. Here's what he says. He says, this is how we know it's the last hour. They went out from us. They did not really belong to us. If they had belonged to us, they would have remained with us. Who are they talking about? And then it says in verse 20, but you have an anointing from the Holy One and all of you know the truth. I do not write to you because you do not know the truth, but because you know it and because no lie comes from the truth. Who is the liar? It's the one who denies that Jesus is the Christ. Such a one is the Antichrist. Now, here's what he's talking about.

There were people, now for a minute, let's not think about prophecy. Let's not think about end times. Who is the Antichrist? We're not talking about any of that. really looking at. He says there were a group of people that were in the church. They were in us. They were with us, but they went out from us. These are people who claim to be Christians. These are people who look like Christians. These are people like us. But they were false. They were counterfeit. They weren't Christians at all. Ah. What's the test? The test is they did not understand and grasp a doctrinal core that Jesus is the Christ. Now, we'll look at this in a second. John says the difference between you and them is by the Holy Spirit you understood and you grasped and you rejoiced in and you recognized a doctrinal core. This is the reason why Christianity absolutely refuses to be categorized as either a right-brained or a left-brained religion. religion. As far as I can see, most philosophies, most religions, in fact most people tend to be one way or the other. What I mean by that is some religions are very mystical and they don't, there's no doctrine, there's no reason, there's no logic, there's not lots and lots of, there's no system of thinking so much. The important thing is experience. The important thing is that? Well, the Bible talks about real experience of God. The Bible says, you noticed, John did not say, we know that we are saved. He actually said, though that's true, he said, we know that we know him. That's what a Christian is. Someone with real experience of God. Somebody who doesn't just know about God, but somebody who sensed his presence. His glory has been poured out on us. And so, you see, there's real experience. But now John turns right around and says, you are not a Christian if you have all this head knowledge, but you don't know God. If you have never sensed his love on your heart, if you never sensed his presence pressing down on your spirit, if you have never sensed that you really connected. He said, I don't care how well you know the Bible. I don't care how well you know theology. In fact, the other tests were all about that. He was saying, you could be Orthodox. He said, you can be very orthodox in all of your beliefs, and if you're not a loving person, you haven't experienced the love of God in your own heart, and so you are not a Christian. So you see, he's been dealing with that one side. Now he turns around, and you see, that's what I mean when I say Christianity is neither a left or right-brained religion. Now he turns around and says, however, that though Christianity is certainly mystical, it's more than that. There is a doctrinal core. There are some things that you have to believe. some truth that has to be recognized. There's a body of content. There's propositions. Hard truth. Hard copy. Something that's there. Something that resists. Something that challenges. Something that you have to bow and submit to. And if you don't bow and submit to it, you're not a Christian. In fact, you know, there's really two views of truth right now. There's the one view. Now, Now, we alluded to this again last week, and I'll keep mentioning what I'm saying tonight, how it relates to last week since lots of you were here. The two views of truth are the biblical view, which says truth exists apart from us, and it constructs and shapes us when we come into contact with it. Truth exists apart from us, whether we believe it or not, and we must bow to it. it. You know, it's like, do you remember the old Fram oil filter commercial? You probably don't. Most of you don't own cars anyway. In fact, some of you are saying, what's an oil filter? Well, that's all right. But the Fram oil filter, there's this mechanic, you know, looking all greasy, you know, and he had a lug wrench in the one hand. And of course, he recently has obviously been taking a whole engine apart and he's about to happily give some poor car owner a bill for two or three thousand dollars. And then he sits there. And he says. You know. If the guy. Would just have. Changed his oil filters. They wouldn't had to do this. And so. He holds the oil filter. Up in the left hand. And he. And he holds up the. Lug wrench. In the right hand. And he says. You can pay me now. Or you can pay me later. See. You know. You can pay a few bucks now. Or you'll pay thousands of. Dollars later. Now. That's really. The biblical view of truth. Too. You can either acknowledge truth. Now. You can either say. There's a truth out there. to. There is a moral order. There is a reality. As reality, there's as much a moral and spiritual reality as there is a physical reality. If I say, oh, that's, there's a door right there, but there's not a door right there, and I go walking through, I'm hit. I fall down. I am devastated. I'm crushed. And if I look into the moral order and say, this is okay because I say it's okay for me. This is okay because I say it's okay for me. There's as much a moral order as

And you can either bow to it now or you can bow to it later. You can bow to it now willingly or else you can bow to it now. You can bow to it later very unwillingly. Oh, it's an awful thing. The Bible says that on the last day, some will say to the rocks, fall on us and to the mountains, cover us and hide us from the face of him who sits upon the throne. In other words, you can either, you know, you pay me now or you pay me later.

That's one view. And the other view is that we exist apart from truth and we construct and shape the truth. That's the contemporary view. The older view is that truth exists apart from us and truth constructs and shapes us. Sooner or later. One way or the other. Now, which is John voting for? It's pretty obvious. Notice, for example, he says, he says, who is the liar? It is the one who denies that Jesus is the Christ. is the Antichrist. He denies the Father and the Son. Now, boy, now look, tell me if this isn't incorrect in our modern climate. He doesn't just say, ah, you don't believe Jesus is the Christ. I do. Well, that's very interesting. You certainly have a right to your opinion. I really respect your opinion. No, he says you're a liar. Now, a note of, let me give you a carefulness footnote here. A carefulness footnote. The Bible has a number of places where it says that we're supposed to be meek as doves. We're supposed to be gentle. When cursed, we're not supposed to curse back. We're supposed to bless. There's all this stuff about being loving and compassionate and kind and ironic and all this sort of thing. How does that square with this? Pretty simple. But you have to be careful because Christians make this mistake all the time. You might say Christians and non-Christians are, have a lot of trouble keeping these two things together. And here's what the Bible says, when it comes to you, when it comes to somebody disagreeing with you, when it comes to somebody saying your policies are wrong, your ideas are wrong, your concepts are wrong, your direction is wrong, you're supposed to say, maybe you're right. You're never supposed to be dogmatic about you. You're never supposed to get awful of revengeance. The minister says, I think. This has happened many, many times, especially to ministers. The minister says, I think we ought to can the organ have guitars in the service. And somebody else says, I think that's a terrible thing. I'm leaving. The minister turns around and says, you're a liar. You know. Because, you know, you are wrong. You're opposing. What? You're opposing the minister. The minister is a human being. When it comes to you, you're supposed to say, I could be wrong. You could be right. But what John is saying here is when it comes to not just any belief, not just any doctrine, oh, there's so many doctrines that they go to the Bible and they can't agree on it. They haven't been able to agree for years. We're talking about something in the center, a core, an absolute core. Let me show you here in a second that John takes the core and boils it all the way down. He takes the gospel and boils it down into this, just this little statement. But when it comes to the gospel, when it comes to that core message, that which all Christians have believed for 2,000 years, that which is as plain as the nose on your face if you read the Bible, there can be no compromise. And when a denies something that ultimately denies the moral order, denies the existence of God, something they ultimately know is true, down deep, as the Bible says. John says there can be no compromise. That person is not just spouting an opinion. That person is in the grip of a lie. That person is lying. This is a very hard thing to hold together. Meekness when it comes to you,

absolute uncompromising assertiveness when it comes to that core truth. Very hard. Almost everybody either throws it all the way one way or all the way another way. You become a dogmatic person, not just about the gospel, but about you and about all your beliefs. Or else you become a completely wishy-washy person, not just about you and all your beliefs, but even about the central stuff. Now, you know, in this, there can't be compromise. What is it? Well, what it is, anyone who says that Jesus, anyone who denies, excuse me, that Jesus is the Christ, such is the Antichrist. Well, you say that's kind of vague. What do you mean that Jesus is the Christ? Okay. Let me give you a little historical background and you'll see how, what a great nutshell this is. John and the Christians of those days, the great problem that they faced was the problem of Gnosticism. Gnosticism. The Gnostics were people, we're not totally sure where they, what their spiritual roots of their idea were, but some of them, they probably were rooted both to Eastern religions and to the old Greco-Roman religions. The Greco-Roman religions taught, the Greeks taught, that matter is bad, the physical is bad. We've talked about that. The Eastern religions taught, said that matter is illusion. It's not real. Either way, you come up with this conclusion. This is what the Gnostic said. The Gnostic said God could not have become a flesh and blood human being. Couldn't. Couldn't be. Jesus Christ, a great guy, Jesus could not have been the Christ. Jesus could not have been the Son of God. Jesus could not have possibly been God come in the flesh. See, that's really what John is talking about. Because when you get over to 1 John 4, he restates his statement here and he says anyone who says that Jesus has not come in the flesh is the spirit of antichrist and that's what he's talking about. See the Gnostics taught that Christ was a divine personage. It was a divine being that descended on the man Jesus at his baptism and left just before his crucifixion because God couldn't possibly die. God couldn't suffer. God couldn't have pain. And therefore, Jesus was a wonderful man, but he wasn't the son of God. John says, if you get rid of this idea,

you have missed Christianity. You're not just disagreeing on a matter of doctrine, you missed Christianity. And here's why. The doctrine of the incarnation is, is we are so sinful that nothing less than this drastic measure was necessary to save us. I'll put it another way. The gospel is that no matter how hard we try to our moral efforts, we're so sinful we'll never be able to get up to God. Therefore, he had to come all the way down to us. And therefore, anybody who denies that Jesus Christ is actually God, the Son of God come in the flesh, has changed the gospel, has changed Christianity into a whole other religion. Now you say, okay, the Gnostics. I never heard of the Gnostics until tonight, or I kind of remember hearing the Gnostics back in Philosophy 101 or something like that. But what's that got to do with us? Well, the reigning dogma of the Protestant churches of this city by and large, at least Manhattan, not so much in the boroughs, but at least in Manhattan is this. We can't believe in the miracles. We can't believe in the virgin birth. Jesus was a really wonderful man. pre-incarnate. He existed before he was born. We can't believe in all that miraculous stuff. Jesus was a wonderful man filled with God consciousness. John says this is not an intramural debate. John says you do not have, quote unquote, a liberal form of Christianity there. You have another religion.

Because what you're saying is being a good person is enough. enough. What you're saying is it's okay. We can reach it. We didn't, God did not have to come all the way down. You don't have to be born again. You don't need all that. Anyone who's just really living a good life. In other words, you might want to believe that's not Christianity. That's an utterly different religion. And it's very exclusive. Very exclusive. Some people that say, I hate Christianity because it's so exclusive. You say that you have to come through Christ to Jesus and Jesus alone is the Christ. Well, you say, that's so exclusive. It leaves out the other people. It leaves out other people. Yeah, it does. Okay, I say, what's your alternative? Well, they say, all good people can come. You don't need God becoming flesh. You don't need God dying on the cross. That's all very primitive and awful. You don't need to be born again from above and all that kind of stuff. All good people can find God. I say, well, great. But that's very exclusive too. They say, what do you mean? Are you a Christian? Ah, the person says no. So my view has left you out. Yes, they say. Your view left me out. How's that? You said only good people get to heaven. Right. What about me, I say?

That leaves me out. Now, I ought to know something. I'm a minister, so I know almost nothing about anything except theology and philosophy. It's an awful thing. I know a little bit about everything, but I don't know much about anything except philosophy, theology, and ethics. I should this. I have studied the golden rule. I know that I don't keep it. I have studied basic morality. I know that I fall short. Your view that says Jesus isn't the Christ, Jesus isn't the exclusive son of God, your view is every bit as exclusive as mine. As a matter of fact, as a matter of fact, I'll take my exclusivity over yours any day because that's what we've got here. We don't have, Christians have the exclusive view and others have the magnanimous view. Absolutely not. It's one kind of exclusivity or another. People say, I don't believe in truth. And they come at Christians and they say, what right have you got to judge other value systems? What are they doing when they say that? What are they doing? They're judging a value system that judges value systems. They say, oh, you can't judge value systems. What the heck is that? At least if you're a Christian, you have a basis for judging value systems And there's no lie in the truth. So there's truth or there's falsity. You say, ah, there's no such thing as truth. Therefore, you shouldn't judge. That's exclusive. We know there's such a thing as exclusive truth because you can't even deny the exclusivity of truth without using exclusive truth in some way. But I'll take my exclusivity. You know why?

Because if Jesus is the Christ and he's the way to the Father,

then no matter what your record is, whether you come out of wonderful niceness or whether you come out of personal messiness, you can come. It doesn't really matter. See, the Christian understanding of truth is so different than moralism. It's so different from the view that says, well, you know, all the religions are fine and all good people can come to God. And that's the important thing. It's not what you believe. It's not a matter of truth. It's whether you live a nice life. Oh, my. All I know is, look at a moralist and ask that moralist to deal with people who are utter failures. And what do they have to say? They have nothing to say. If I'm a failure, if I've failed, I come to a person who says, Well, you know, moral effort, that's the way we get to God. It's not a matter of truth so much. You just have to be a good person. But I failed. What does the moralist have to say? Nothing. thing. Because all moralism says is, pull yourself up by your bootstraps. Pull yourself together. But when you come to a Christian, a Christian who knows that he or she is saved by grace, and you're a moral failure, and that Christian understands that Jesus is the Christ, that Christian understands the gospel, that person treats you with hope in a way a moralist never, ever could. Why? Because the Christian looks at you, no matter what kind are and realizes that's nothing to stop you from God. See, Christianity says it doesn't matter. We talked about this a bit this morning. One of the most amazing things about the genealogies in the beginning of the book of Matthew is who is in it. The genealogies is the family line, the family tree of Jesus Christ. And in the beginning, in Matthew chapter 1, it says, so on and so on. And it goes through and shows all the... And your genealogy, to an ancient Jew, genealogy was the people you were bragging on. Look at these people. These are my ancestors.

Christianity turns the moralistic mindset upside down. The mindset that says the important thing is effort. The important thing is not truth. The important thing is not the gospel. Not holding on to this inner core. No, the important thing is what? Everybody just finding what's right for them and basically being good people. Moral failures, you'll get nothing from them. Moral failures, you get nothing from moralists. There's a beauty about a moral person. There's a beauty about a decent person.

But it's the beauty of a snowflake. Beautiful, symmetrical, intricate, freezing. One of the things I thought was so interesting, believe it or not, there was, a thoughtful, thought-provoking review of the new Brady Bunch movie. It was in Time Magazine. I think it was Richard Schickel. And he said, the weird thing about the Brady Bunch movie is this. On the one hand, the Brady Bunch shows traditional values. These are the way, you know, this is traditional values. Purity and morality and family values and all that sort of thing. But the way they go through, life is they're clueless about people who are suffering. And they can't understand people who are breaking down. And they can't understand life as it is. They're just not realistic. And Richard Schickel says at the end, he says, what's really weird is on the one hand, we know that we just can't live any old way. In the 90s, we're starting to wise up. We had the 60s and the 70s and even the 80s. We went through sexual liberation. We went through materialistic liberation. We're starting to realize we've got to have some moral compass or we can't have a society. But when you look at the Brady Bunch, and you see how clueless they are, you realize we can't just go back to that. We're going to have to find some other way. And you see the Brady Bunch are moralists. These are people who have no concept of grace. They don't look at themselves and say, I'm a good person. Of course I'm a good person, the way Christians do. Christians say, I'm a good person right now. I have some self-control. I'm making progress. It's a miracle.

And when they come upon somebody else who's having problems and is not living that way, you look and say, you can be changed too.

The Brady Bunch looks in the mirror and they say, I'm pretty together. And of course. Of course. I mean, isn't everybody? I mean, all the people who really are together are together. All my friends are together. I'm together. You know. There's no. A Christian looks in the mirror and says, this is a miracle. I've got values. I've got. I'm making progress. This is a miracle.

moralism is freezing, and it's exclusive in a very different way. The gospel says, anybody. If you look at the family tree of Jesus, you'll see all the great patriarchs. You'll see a lot of dead white males. You'll see them. There's Abraham, you know, rich. And then you'll get to Tamar, an incest victim. And then you get to Rahab, a prostitute. and then you get to Bathsheba, an adulteress, and then you get to marry herself, a single unwed mother. You get to people who are on the outs, people who are not, you see, they're marginalized, people who are not in circles that are civilized. They're not decent people. They're not respectable people. And what is the message? Jesus Christ says, to those who receive me, who believe on my name, children. I honor you. I put you and give you an honored place in my family regardless of your record, regardless of who you've been, regardless of what you've done. Because when you believe in me, everything that I've done, my record comes to you. Think about that. Truth is there. How do we know? Because even the people who deny it use it to deny it. Truth is exclusive. How do we know? Because even people who deny there's exclusive truth have to use it in order to deny it.

This is the one truth that's for every kind of person. This is the one truth which truly is for everybody. And if you deny it, you've got another whole religion and another whole kind of exclusivity and not the kind that can say, brethren, remember what you were when you were called, says Paul to the Corinthian church. Not many of you are noble. many of you were wise. Not many of you were together people. I'm paraphrasing. Not many of you were people of stature. Not many of you were learned. Not many of you were influential. But God chose the foolish things to shame the wise. God chose the weak things to shame the strong. God chose the lowly and despised things, even the things which are not, to bring to nothing the things which are, so that no one will boast in his presence.

you have to have this truth to understand and receive the grace of God what is truth? it's a person what is truth? it's something you can eat and drink what is truth? I am the way, the truth, and the life said the little Jesus Christ no one comes to the Father but through me let's pray our Father this is a hard truth and it's out there air. But Lord, we understand that what the claim of your writer is, the Apostle John, is that we can pay now or we pay later. We would pay now. We would come and bow before your Son and recognize that he is the Son of God and he is the Christ. And we know that if he is the Christ and we bow to him, we'll have the truth and the truth will set us free. We thank you that's possible and we ask that you'd make it an actuality in our lives. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.
