I have a new section. What I was originally planning on doing was giving you a shorter lecture and a case-study sermon the way Ed did. I'm going to wait till tomorrow to do that. I'm going to wait till the morning to do it. Because on the basis of some of the questions you were asking, I decided to choose a different sermon. My job is the practitioner. I'm the guy that's supposed to be giving you all the practical how-tos. is turn to chapter 3. I'm going to do chapter 3 and chapter 4 if I can. And these are going to be, especially chapter 4 for a lot of you is going to start answering these questions. You're asking me, how in the world do you tie the example into the preaching Christ, that they're really integrated? But first of all, here's something that keeps coming up. Look at verse, this is page 17, Getting to Christ. This is new. It's already come up and it came up the last two years. where it's already come up that you don't necessarily need a character type in order to preach Christ. We're trying to show you that all of Scripture is about Christ. So what I did was I went to Alec Motyer's book, Look to the Rock, which, by the way, I use as a reference book. Almost every time I'm preaching any sermon, I go to his Scripture index and look up and see what he says, and I always get ideas. I must admit that I probably get more things out of certain books like this commentaries than I do out of the commentaries. I got certain books that I always go to see what they said. This is one of the reasons why I am still very angry with whoever put Ed Clowney's unfolding mystery book together without a scripture index. Oh, it does? You mean I'm going to have to buy a new version of your book? All right. How much? Never mind then. But I looked at Motyer's book and I also looked at Sidney Greidanus' book, the new book, Old Testament. And this is my own version. It's fairly different, but it's in-depth. But this is my own version. I'm going to give you four ways of getting to Christ organically. Four ways of getting to Christ organically. And I've given them my own little names, but you'll see what I mean by them. I'm going to take maybe hopefully 20 minutes on this. Yeah, 20 minutes on the next. The first one is what I call theme resolution. And I got this a little bit from Ray Dillard and Tremper Longman's book on Intro to the Old Testament. There's quite a number of what Don Carson calls intercanonical themes, what Sidney Greidanus calls longitudinal themes. They're not exactly types, though types sometimes are associated with them. They are themes that cut across the entire biblical corpus. Right now, Don Carson's editing a series of books on these themes that are filled with great ideas for sermons. Unfortunately, they're not put out in this country yet, but he told me, he just told me last month, that Ivy Press will start putting them out. At the bottom of your sheet, I put down, they're called New Studies in Biblical Theology. They're put out under the Apollos imprint of Ivy Press in the United Kingdom. So, for example, Ray Ortlund, some of you know Ray Ortlund, he has a whole book called Hordom. How do you like that? Hordom. which is just tracing the whole theme of adultery and faithfulness between the Lord and His bride all through the Bible. I mean, somebody needs to do that. It's a whole book-length treatment of that. I go back up to the text here. There's currently, Carson's editing a series of books on the themes. Motyer's Look to the Rock chooses seven of these themes, seven of them, and shows how Christ is the fulfillment them. They're not exactly types. The idea of the image of God, for example. The idea of, is that a type? No. And yet, you know, the idea of the Sabbath rest. Is that a type? No. And yet, these are themes that go all the way from Genesis, all the way through the law, the prophets, in the New Testament, all the way out to the new creation. And Christ is the key to every one of them. In other words, these themes have thickening plots also. Here's what's interesting. Motyer points out that the Old Testament asserts many of these truths in apparently unreconcilable tension. Ed will give you one of them, and that is the Lord and the servant thing. These themes have thickening plots as the Old Testament goes on. In other words, like all good stories, there are dramatic tensions within the theme that as it goes along through the text seems to be unreconcilable or insoluble. That's what I mean by saying the plot begins to thicken. You say, how could this be? Only in Christ are the tensions in these themes resolved and fulfilled. With this approach, rather than only looking for types, you should look for the questions the text raises to which Jesus is the only answer, or as Motyer calls it, the answer in the back of the book. of the following themes. Now, I'm going to give you a series of these themes right here. It's not an exhaustive list, but what you do is find the theme running through your text, pull on the thread, and you've got your sermon. Now, here's what I mean. I'm going to give you three broad themes, and a number of narrower themes. When I say broad and narrow, I mean, these themes are kind of interlocking. They are not nice and neat. They are not all separate. They are overlapping and interlocking. Let me give you one. The first one is the theme of the King and the Kingdom. Have you already heard something about this. The freedom and glory of God's kingdom is lost when Adam and Eve sin. The search for a true king absorbs much of the history of God's people. By the way, when the Lord of the Rings... I don't know if it's going to be any good, but when, you know, like the most expensive movie ever made, the Lord of the Rings is being made into three movies at once. It's being all... Something like $600 million is being put into it. I hope they're good. But when they come out,

And basically, the theme of the Lord of the Rings is, you need a king. You've got to have a king. The world won't work well without a king. Your life won't work well without a king. And so, that's one of the main themes of the Bible. The people are continually falling away. Judges come and they go. They're never quite right. The people fall away from submission to the rule of God and instead serve idols, which oppress and enslave them. The successes and failures of all Israel's leaders point to the need for a true king. But eventually, the tension between the brokenness and the requisite power of the liberator king becomes overwhelming. You hear that? Now, that's something I got out of my tears. Especially, it really comes to fruition in Isaiah. The depth of the brokenness and the depth of the enslavement means that whoever this king... What king could ever handle this? What king could ever possibly deal with the depth of the brokenness? Moses leads the Exodus out of the land of bondage. He fails to obey God at the rock. Though David kills Goliath, Uriah, no human king is enough. Maybe Gordon Hubergenberger disagrees with me on this, but the expectations of a perfect king come to fruition in Isaiah. If you read Isaiah and some of the Psalms, you get to the place where things are insoluble. There's just no way we're going to have a king that could possibly put everything back together again. The question that runs through the Bible is this, how can any king be powerful enough to liberate us from the slavery that is this great, and the answer is, only the Creator Himself could possibly be a big enough king, a kingly enough king, to come back and undo all the damage. And that is the theme of the kingdom. How in the world is anything going to be put, how will Humpty Dumpty be put back together again? And the point is, only if the Creator Himself comes back. And that is an unfolding thing that happens, it goes on until you get to the Psalms, you get to Isaiah, and you're going to hear He's going to give you all the details of how that theme works. Now, you might say that's typology, and it is a little more like the second one, but that is a longitudinal theme. It's all over the place. And therefore, you don't have to find a David or a Solomon. You don't have to find some ideal king to be your type. Anyone in leadership, in any of the stories in the Old Testament, is pointing to the fact that we don't have a leader we need. by way of contrast or comparison. Here's a second broad theme. The theme of grace and law. Now, I got this from Ray Dillard. Ray Dillard's little analysis of the book of Judges in his intro to the Old Testament was a real eye-opener. Listen to this. A second major theme of the Bible is how the holiness and love of God relate in the covenant. God is absolutely holy and also merciful, but how can he be both? Ray Dillard says that the histories of Judges through 2 Chronicles,

He says from Judges all the way through 1 Samuel, Kings, and Chronicles, he believes that basically all the narratives are propelled by a tension. They're caught in the dilemma between whether God's covenant with his people is conditional or unconditional. He says the narratives are mainly propelled by the tension of the question, how can God be holy and still remain faithful? He says that's the question. And what you have in the book of Judges, and all these places are places where God seems to be saying, My covenant is conditional. You must obey. If you don't obey, I will cut you off. If you don't obey, I will spurn you. You must obey. And other places where He seems to act as if the covenant is unconditional. No matter what. I will be your God. I will be there. I will, you know, conserve a remnant, and so on. And Ray says this.

you obey. The promises of the Old Testament are conditional. You have to, unless you live right, your children won't turn out right. Unless you use the rod, they won't grow up to honor you. In other words, there's a legalistic way to read the Old Testament, which is the covenant's basically conditional. And then there's the liberal way. The liberal way is to say, God really loves everybody. Doesn't matter how you live, basically God's going to accept you all. And Ray says that is, there's both a liberal and a conservative way to try the tension will not be resolved. It's unresolvable in the Old Testament. And the question is, how can God be both holy and still remain faithful to his people? And don't go to the conservative or the liberal answer. The conservative answer is, well, he's just basically holy, and he'll only be faithful to people who are good to him. Or the liberal answer, he's basically faithful to everybody. The answer is, only in the cross, are both the law of God and the Love of God were fulfilled, together.

Isaiah really points to a resolution. When you get to Isaiah, you really see the tension. That's why I've been reading Motyer's masterful commentary. And he says that's one of the main themes of Isaiah. And that is that you have this incredible Lord coming and you have this weak servant. Isaiah points to a resolution when he speaks of the need for both a high king and a suffering servant. But even Isaiah basically creates more dramatic tension. Because when you're done with the end of the book of Isaiah, you say, how in the world could anyone fulfill both grace and love in the covenant? And the answer is Christ. Do you see what I'm driving at? Do you need a type to preach Christ out of any text that shows you this tension? No. And this tension is all through the Old Testament, all through the narratives. Is the covenant of God conditional or unconditional? And the answer is yes. And it's only yes if Christ actually came and fulfilled the covenant so that we can now be saved by grace through faith. You see that?

The cross means we've got a God far more holy than any legalist dare believe in. Because you have to be absolutely perfect, totally, totally perfect to fulfill the holiness of God. And yet we also have a loving God, far more loving and accepting than any relativist dares believe in. to die. No relative misbelieves God had to die to accept us. They just believe God just loves us all. You got it? Here's a third theme. Well, I don't have the time. I really don't. Look at these narrower themes. Worship and the sanctuary. Question, how can we connect to the presence of God? That's a big problem all through the Bible. The presence was lost through sin. It dwells amidst the people in the tabernacle. But now in Christ, God's glory

And now the presence of God is actually within us. Some day the light and presence of God will fill the earth. Jesus is the beauty we must adore if we are ever going to live. That's a major theme. We have the presence of God in the Garden of Eden, it's removed. It comes down occasionally, to the patriarchs, and it comes down into the tabernacle and temple. And then Jesus dies, and it breaks out into all of our lives through Christ, because in him we actually have the glory we can behold. That's a major, major theme. anywhere you see the glory in the presence of God we were Touching on that theme when it comes to Babel a way of getting to heaven Bethel where you know it comes down jesus christ says you'll see angels ascending and descending on the son of man he's really saying I am the way into the presence of God angels the cherubim you know they're the ones that are the signifiers of the royal presence of God that's why you know when Isaiah actually saw God in his there is angels around. So one of the things Jesus is saying there is on the way into the very presence of the Holy, you know, in a way that it won't be fatal to you. A fifth theme, righteousness and nakedness. How can we be free of shame and condemnation? We were originally righteous, we were right with God, we were naked and unashamed. Jesus, however, is the perfectly obedient Son, clothing us in a robe of his unrighteousness, leading us boldly unashamedly before the throne. How can we know love and intimacy? God depicts his relationship with his people as a relationship of a husband to a faithful wife. But Jesus is the true bridegroom who sacrificially loves his spouse, wins her love, presents her to himself a radiant bride. See, these themes, by the way, are intercanonical. They go all the way through.

Image and likeness. How can we become fully human? God made us in his image and likeness, but that likeness has been defaced in us, though not lost, we have the perfect picture both of who God is in terms we can literally grasp I mean Jesus is the image of God image meaning I can actually image it's something palpable you know if I wasn't for Jesus I really God's love would be an abstraction but look at him with the children in his lap and look at him dying on the cross he's the image of God and yet we see who we are in Christ you know we're so broken we would not know what it means to be human but Jesus is in the sense of telling us what it means to be human as well. Through Christ, the image of God is restored in us. Why is the tabernacle and the temple... Nobody has yet dug up an image of Yahweh. They're trying, I'm sure. Why weren't they allowed to make an image? Because God was going to send his own image. And Jesus is the icon. Number eight, rest and Sabbath. How can we find harmony with ourselves and with those around us? Shalom. Sabbath. We were originally called into the rest, the shalom of God, but now we are deeply restless, and the Sabbath points to the rest from our physical work we need, but more profoundly, Christ brings the spiritual rest from our good work. That's Hebrews 4. And finally, we'll have the ultimate rest in the city of God. That's an intercanonical theme. Wisdom in the Word. Let me show you judgment and justice for a second. If there's no ultimate judge, by the way, judgment and the judge is a major theme through the scripture. If there's no ultimate judge, for the world. And if we don't have a judge, that means that, you know, anyone can get away with anything. And besides that, if there's no judge, one of the ways, we'll talk about this later, but I like to say to people when I'm sort of speaking evangelistically, I like to say, look at evolution. It's perfectly natural for the strong to eat the weak. And therefore, if you say it's bad for strong nations to eat weak nations, then what you're saying is there must be some standard outside of nature

trouble. And what's the answer? Only in Christ is there hope because he's the judge who took our judgment. He's the judge who was judged. So that God can be both just and justifier of those who believe. And that's a big thing through the scripture. The idea of judgment and the judge. You know, he comes to rule. You got to be careful because the word judge and rule, let's say that, I mean they're very close. When the Bible says, Psalm 96, then shall the trees of the woods sing for joy before the Lord because he comes to judge the earth. Don't forget the word there basically means rule, not just divide. Turn over to page 20.

19, I'm sorry, 19.

Well, I'm just going to leave this to you. When I say by a cross-cut factor, a cross-cut factor means,

now that I gave you the themes, and frankly, by the way, any one of those could be about a seven or eight week series. every one of those, showing how the whole Bible fits together and how none of those themes resolve except in Christ. They have insoluble problems without Christ. But the important thing to keep in mind, and Ed will bring this out, and a lot of your other books will bring this out, the preacher must put the text into the flow of God's salvation history because all those themes have stages. God is bringing his Sabbath rest. God is bringing his justice. God is bringing his presence. God is bringing his image into fruition, but in stages. And therefore, the themes build progressively, and it's important for you to locate where your text is in the progress. But I'm going to leave that to Ed, because that's what he talks about. Well, let me give you one example. Let's look at this first paragraph. It's usually important to make some reference to the whole history when you're preaching. if you don't show that there are stages in the redemptive historical flow, you may mislead people. So, for example, when you are preaching about the psalmist's desire to go to the sanctuary, right, let's say you are preaching in a psalm and you get to the place where the psalmist is just hungering to go to the sanctuary, you really shouldn't just say then, now, that's why you should all want to come to worship every week.

Wouldn't you say it's the average preacher does that? You should want to come to our sanctuary every week, too. Well, you should rather say, We are the temple now. There's a difference now between the way the presence of God dwells, the way God indwells his people now, and then it's a little bit different. Not a little bit, I'm sorry. It's different, okay? Because Jesus is the temple. We are the temple. And therefore, you actually ought to say, How much more is fellowship with the presence of God, in the presence of God, available to us, than it was there? In other words, you ought to point out the difference. and say, if anything, we have more access to the presence of God than they did back then. We have more access to fellowship with God than we had back then. Our union with God in some ways is richer and deeper. So if you don't bring out the progress, you miss some of the impact and the excitement that could come to the people. Now the second basic way to preach Christ, again, still not really looking so much at types, is what I call law completion. Completion. Tomorrow, I'll draw this out further, but just come with me. In this approach, we take one of the ethical principles and examples of the Bible, say, from the wisdom literature, from the Old Testament law, New Testament epistles, like be generous, like tithe, for example. Let's just say you find some place where it talks about, in Malachi, bring in the tithe in the storehouse. How do you preach Christ from that? I think frankly it's easy. And don't forget that Paul says in Galatians 3.24, the law is ultimately meant to lead us to Christ. Now how is it easy? Well, look back at the text here. The ethical principles are extremely searching and they're profound, but if we listen to them honestly and thoroughly we will always see it's impossible to keep them. If you're not, if you don't preach You'll always say to people, You can do it. But let's face it. You're not really listening to the law. In Christ-centered preaching, we argue that we have not listened to the full weight of the rule until we see that Christ will have to fulfill this ethical principle for us or we're dead. That means you can always get to Christ from any ethical principle. You can say, You'll never love people like you want to love them. Give me a break. You're lost. we're in trouble. I mean that's the way. And you're immediately getting to Christ, by the way. Now that doesn't mean you come back and say, now that you see what Jesus has done, you need to get at this. But don't you see what every ethical principle brings you to Christ? Because Paul says, the law is ultimately meant to lead us to Christ. Therefore, Jesus is the only way to truly take the law seriously. The law does demand that we be perfectly holy, so we are not really listening to the law if we think we can obey it. The law is saying, in effect, you can never fulfill me, You need a Savior if you listen to it hard enough. I'll give you a quick example. One of the dangers, we all know about the tithe thing here. I hope you should say this. And that is that, here's how I preach it redemptive historically. The first thing I was saying, in the Old Testament, the tithe. And here, okay? Now, what about us in the New Testament? Are we more indebted, if anything, to the grace of God or less? Yes, see? Are we more obligated? Are we more responsible? Does God hold the people of God more responsible to understand His mind and to live His will out now more or less? It's more. And therefore, is it possible at all that we would be expected by God to be giving less than 10% of our income? No, of course not. We should be giving sacrificially. You'll never do it. Read Shantung Compound sometime. It's unbelievable the incredible wise ways that you can rationalize a lack of generosity in your life. You know, Langdon Gilkey says, they were all put together in a compound detention. The Japanese rounded up all the enemy civilians, put them in a compound somewhere in Manchuria. Is that where Shantung is? In World War II. Put people in these tiny little places. Langdon Gilkey said, there was 11 men in this dorm and said, we can hardly move. we've got 11 men in a dorm, 9 by 18, and they've got 9 men in a dorm, 9 by 18. It's exactly the same. Why don't you go over there and ask them, could you put one of us in there so we'll be 10 and 10? And Langdon Gilkey, he said, he walked across and said, well, not all reasonable people will see. If you have exactly the same amount of space as they do, and you have 9 and they have 11, and they can hardly turn around, of course it will only be fair and just right away. They'd say, of course, we feel an obligation to make room for that 10th person. He went over there, and they looked at him like, they stared at him like a cow stares at a new gate. And they said, well, we're really sorry those 11 people over there are so cramped, but what has that got to do with us? Wait a minute, they said, you're single men, they're single men. Same amount of room, same amount of room. We have 11, you know how bad it is in there. So what does that got to do with us? of legal and moral and religious reasons. There was one guy who said, I write sermons for the church. They had a church there, and there were some missionaries there. One guy said, I write sermons, and it benefits everybody. And if I had any less space, I couldn't possibly even think to write those sermons.

You're never going to be generous unless something changes your life. You're never going to do what God requires of you. So what do you do? You take them to Christ. First of all, I said,

ultimately, every time you get to an ethical principle that's pointing you to Christ, I think that's what Paul is saying. Because if you're really listening to it, you'll see it's impossible to obey it and you're going to hell unless Jesus saves you. But then you can even see how Jesus exemplifies it, not just exemplifies it, but fulfills it in his finished work. And it's a lack of faith in that finished work that makes it difficult for you to even begin to make a dent on living this ethical principle out. What then do we exhort the people to do? The law listening approach does not say,

After all, nobody's perfect. Instead, we show that we will not be truly free and able to obey this principle until we first see that Jesus fulfilled it to us, and we'll get to that tomorrow. Okay? Turnover, page 20. By the way, I think Ed taught me about this. You see, Ed Clowney says, for example, this. I don't know if he's going to say this, but I've heard him say it, so I'll tell it to you just to make sure you hear it. is Ed said, when God decided after Adam and Eve fell not to wipe them out, why didn't he wipe them out? Because he was going to save them through Christ. That means all human history has only one reason, and that is the revelation of Jesus. All history has only one purpose. The only reason there is a history is because of Jesus. And what that also means is this. God did not look down from heaven and say, say, well, how am I going to reveal who Jesus is? I know, marriage is big with him. I'll say, my son is like a bridegroom. No, no, no, no. I mean, obviously, let's give God a little bit of credit. God invented marriage to tell us about his salvation, not that he uses marriage as just a nice symbol of it. And that means that every ethical principle, You know, the church, the state, the family, every ethical principle is actually telling us something about Christ. The way Ed, in one tape I listened to him some years ago, he says, we can't explain what thou shalt not commit adultery means unless we look at the faithfulness and properly jealous love Jesus has shown to us on the cross. His jealous love does not only define sexual fidelity, it gives us the only sufficient practice it ourselves. Unless we have his jealous love, we will never be able to practice jealous love. Unless we know what he's done for us, we'll never have the fortitude or the ability to be sexually faithful to other people as we are. Jesus is therefore not just this ultimate example of sexual fidelity. He's the fulfiller of the principle for us, objectively and subjectively. He fulfilled the law of being sexually faithful for us as a way of getting us into the family of God. But then it's seeing him fulfill it is the basis for our being able to even go about living it out in our own lives. So every time you get to an ethical principle, I would say you get to Christ. You don't look for a type there. The tithe isn't a type of Christ.

Now, C and D, I'm just going to be quick on, because they are closer to what you expect. When most people say, how do I preach Christ? Right away you say, look for a type. And this is closer to that. I tried to show you that my first two approaches are, The resolution of these themes, these longitudinal themes, especially the tensions in the themes. Secondly, look to Christ as the completion of the law, a very ethical principle. See, I call it story insertion. Now, by story insertion is, take the story that you're working on and put it into the bigger story.

Now, here's what I mean. Individual storylines. Let me just read through this. This is my own. I worked on this to try to give you a kind of concentrate. Clowney pill. All right? Concentrate. You know, if you add water to it, it goes on for hours and hours, and you learn a lot of it. But this is a concentrate. All the individual stories in the Bible point to Jesus. Especially as you locate them, you insert them in the bigger story, the history of redemption. Jesus is the true and better Adam who passed the temptation test in the garden and whose obedience is imputed to us. Jesus is the true Abel who, though innocently slain, has blood now that cries out for our acquittal, not for condamnation. Jesus is the true Abraham, who answered the call of God to leave all the familiar in God into the void, not knowing whither he went. Jesus is the true Isaac, who is the son of laughter, of grace, who has offered up for us all. He's the true Jacob, who wrestled with God, took the blow of justice we deserve, so we, like Jacob, only receive the wounds of grace just to wake us up. He's the true Joseph, who is the right hand of the King, forgiving those who betrayed and sold him, and uses his new power to save them. He's the true and better Moses who stands in the gap between the people and the Lord and who mediates a new covenant He's the real man on the mountain He's the true rock of Moses who struck with the rod of God's justice now gives us water in the desert He's the true Joshua who's the general of the Lord's army Joshua meets the true Joshua remember he goes out before the battle of Jericho and sees this weird guy all duded up and looking pretty you know sort of superheroish and he says or for the enemies? And the guy looks at him and says, wrong question. Are you for us or are they your enemies? And he says, no.

It's not a question of whose side I'm on. Are you on my side or not? In other words, it's one of the few places where the type actually meets the anti-type face to face. Joshua meets the real Joshua. I find that so interesting. He's the true and better Job. How is Jesus the true and better Job? and sufferer, who then intercedes for his friends. Jesus is the better Samson, whose death accomplishes so much good. He's the true David, whose victory becomes his people's victory, though they never lifted a stone to accomplish it themselves. Jesus is the true teacher, the Ecclesiastes teacher. You know what? You say, what do you mean he's the true Koheleth? Because he leads us through despair to help us find God. He's the true Jonah, who went into the belly of the earth and so people could be saved. Every story is about Jesus. But that's not just true of the individual. This is important. Let me keep pushing you on this. It's also true of corporate storylines. Now, this is something that is going to come out more in some of the more modern and slightly less evangelical and orthodox scholarship, like N.T. Wright. But what they're going to point out is that Jesus Christ is the leader of a community, and therefore it's the history of the people of God, the story of the people of God, not just the story of individuals. The story of the people of God is a type of Christ. And that's something that a lot of us in this room, might forget, look into this paragraph. All the major events in the history of the formation of the people of God point us to Christ. Jesus is the one through whom all people are created. Okay, go back to Genesis 1. Thus, creation story itself points forward to the new creation in Christ. Creation story points us to the fact that we are going to be newly created in Christ. Jesus is the one who went through temptation and probation in the wilderness. He is the Israel who went through the 40 days of the wilderness, right? Just like Israel went 40 years in the wilderness. Therefore, the story of the fall and the wilderness points forward to the successful probation and act of obedience of Christ. The act of obedience. Thus, the Exodus story points forward to the true Exodus Jesus led for his people through his death, which is referred to in Luke 9. He led them not just out of economic and political bondage, but out of bondage to sin and death itself, though. Moses only took them out of economic and political bondage. Jesus brings us out of bondage to sin and death itself. The wandering in the exile to Babylon points forward to Jesus' homelessness, wandering in wilderness temptation, his suffering as a scapegoat, and he suffered outside the gate. He was taken away from Jerusalem. to Mount Calvary. He underwent the ultimate exile which fulfilled the righteousness of God fully. Turn over to page 21. You get that? Now, in other words, Jesus is literally the true Israel. He's the one who is faithful to the covenant. He's the remnant of one. God will save a remnant. He will save the faithful people. This is one of the ways in which the conditionality, unconditionality stuff of the Old Testament is satisfied in Christ. Because there's many places where God says, I will save a remnant. I will save a faithful remnant. This faithful remnant got down to one. There's only one. But we had one. He fulfills all the obligations of the covenant and earns the blessings of the covenant for all who believe. And when Hosea talks about the Exodus, I learned this from Ed too. When Hosea talks about the Exodus of Israel from Egypt, he quotes, he says, Out of Egypt I have called my son. Hosea calls all of Israel my son. But when Matthew quotes this verse, he's just talking about Jesus. And that just shows how the New Testament writers understood That it's not just the individual stories of the Old Testament that are fulfilled in Christ, but it's the corporate story, the story of the people of God. Jesus fulfills the story of the people of God because Jesus is forming a people. And that is very important. That's biblical. It's there. In our more individualistic former era, we didn't talk as much about Jesus as the builder and the founder of a community. But he says, I will build my church. So, anyway. And here's a third one, and this starts to get to the issue about Ruth. I want you to see, it's not individual stories, that have to be put into the bigger story. It's not corporate stories, that have to be put into the bigger story. But sometimes, there's no type at all. There's not a people of God, and there's not individual, nice, individual, nice, individual, nice, individual, nice, individual nice, individual the way God saves in Christ. Look at this. There's another kind of typology. I know Sidney Greidanus would not call this typology. He calls it analogy. That's all right. Who knows? It's often overlooked. Sometimes the very narrative pattern of life through death or triumph through weakness, which is so often... Actually, Ed talked about it when he talked about little David going before Goliath. Don't forget, the David-Goliath story happens not when David is a full-grown man. Very interesting. Why? he's a kid and therefore it's not just David you know is the anointed one typifying Christ but I would like to argue that all the places where God turns things upside down works through the weak works through defeat you see works through weakness brings life through death just does things in a completely reverse way than the world expects things to happen but the narrative parent itself is pointing us to Christ even though there's maybe no or one little symbol you can get. And if you start looking like that, you find it very, very, very easy to preach Christ from the text, though Greidanus calls it by analogy. So let me give you an example or two. In fact, I'll give you this example. Notice how in the story of Naaman, every person with power and worldly status in the story of Naaman is clueless about salvation. Every servant, every little nobody, every marginal person knows what's going on. This is a major pattern in the Bible. pattern is a grace event or grace storyline. For example, few would consider Esther or Ruth to be a type of Christ, and yet in order to redeem the people they love, they have to risk loss and do many things that mirror how Christ brought salvation to us. Another important grace event typology is the order of the exodus and the law giving. So for example, God gives the law and then they come out of Egypt? No. God says, here is my ten commandments, do them and now that you have Egypt? No. He saves them and then he gives them the Ten Commandments. You're saved in order to obey. You don't obey in order to get saved. Now, is that a type of Christ? Yeah, I'd say so. It's a narrative pattern of the gospel. But where's the type? Where's the symbol? Be careful about being too, you know, little, you know, you get fixated. Where's the type? Then I can preach Christ. I don't see one. I guess I can't. And that's not what you should be doing. It's important to see the importance of tying even the deeds of Christ to his own work. Now, let me, here's one last little it is very easy to even preach a gospel narrative moralistically, even though it's all about Jesus. All about Jesus. You know, for example, I'll give you a quick example of this if I can. I might give you this example later in fruition. Here you have Jesus. Jairus comes along and says, I would like to have you come and save my little daughter. She's dying. She's going to die any minute. And Jesus says to Jairus, okay. with him, in the middle of going, a woman comes up with a chronic problem, the flow of blood touches him, and he brings her out and draws her into a long conversation. Now you know what? Every emergency room doctor in the world, you put two people before him, a little girl about to die, and a woman who's had a chronic problem for 12 years, which do you treat first? Well you always think of the little girl, not Jesus. He takes a chronic problem. I mean, she'd be living. I mean, 12 years. I mean, she could wait another few minutes. Jesus deals with her and lets the little girl die. He's turned, in other words, and then Jairus comes along and says, Lord, you know, I won't bother you. My daughter's dead. I'm not going to bother you anymore. Remember the messenger comes and says, don't bother the master anymore. And Jesus turns around and says, just believe. Now, what's the moral of the story? Now, it is so easy to preach this moralistically. Unbelievably easy. The moral of the story is, you better trust Jesus, because even if it looks like He's turning down your prayer, you know, you have to trust Him. You may not understand what He's doing, and you may not understand why He delays, you may not understand why He has said no to your prayer, but He knows what He's doing. Let us pray. And actually, you know, that's all right, because, I mean, that's true. But you know what, unless you put that story, and you say, I've preached Christ, it's all about Jesus. I mean, it's Jesus doing this, and Jesus doing this, and Jesus doing this. or point out that Jesus had a prayer turndown. I think you need to point out that Jesus Christ had a prayer turndown. He said, let this cup pass from me. And God's Father said, no. And that Jesus Christ was rejected and Jesus Christ felt abandoned by God for you. Jesus' own examples and teaching has to be put into the big picture. Or you're really going to be, you're preaching moralistically. You're just asking people to try harder and they're just going to be crushed under it because they won't be able to do it. is actually the simplest one, and that is symbol fulfillment. And symbol fulfillment means I have found, in general, that there are sort of non-personal symbols. There's lots of them. You know, the Passover, the bronze snake. For example, and we've already talked a little bit about this, but look at number one, major figure typology and symbols. All the major figures and leaders of the Scriptures point us to Christ. Every prophet, every priest, every king, every judge who brings about salvation, they all are pointing us to Christ. Those are symbols, I believe, both in their strengths and their flaws. The outsiders that God uses are symbols. Turn over to page 22. Number two, the non-personal salvation types and symbols. Salvation by grace symbols out to their fulfillment in Christ. The bronze snake, the water of life from the smitten rock point to Christ because Jesus says so. He says, I have the water of life. sacrificial and temple system, right? The temple itself, the altar, the candelabra, the bread. Jesus fulfills them all. He fulfills all the clean laws they point to him. And therefore, I'm not going to spend much more time on that because you know that one. That's the easy one. So you have symbol fulfillment. You have story insertion, which is a little bit more nuanced than just types. you've got law completion and you've got theme resolution I look at text and I say I mean I don't just go down the list exactly but unless I have all that in my head I come to text I'm going to miss opportunities for preaching Christ so we are going to take a few minutes now to do Q&A that's my practical how to if you're preparing preachers how to how to try to get organically from the text to Christ without adding on or allegorizing. And it sets up, I think, I think a lot of what Ed is going to be saying to you over the next few days, you're going to be able to immediately say, okay, that's a great example of that and that and that. So let's start. I want to make it perfectly clear that all that he's been talking about in terms of the themes of the Bible are things that I'm heartily endorsing. I only drew this to deal with a special problem of types. I'm not saying, did I ever mean to suggest that the only way you find Christ in the Old Testament is by a type. I made it clear, certainly, that you find Christ in the Old Testament when he actually appears as the angel. But you also find Christ in these themes. See, this thing would be useless without what you've just heard about the importance of the themes. Because you couldn't have a type without a theme, but you can sure have a theme without a type. Interesting.

But we do get fixated, at least I have over the years, on the types. Yeah, some of the things that you were saying sounded to me as though we were assuming that the only way we could find Christ was through the type. Well, I heard that in some of the questions last year and already this year, so that's what I wrote that for. Good thing for. But now we know. But now we know better. All right.

Thank you.
