In the bulletin, we've got a little passage out of the book of Proverbs, and that's what we're going to look at tonight. And as you're turning to it, which I hope you will, let me tell you why we're doing it. Some of you, those of you who attend the evening service here with some regularity, you know that what we've been doing for the last number of years, or was it weeks, I guess, has been studying the book of John. No, James. Is this the morning or the evening? And the book of James we've been looking at since the fall. The book of James is a New Testament book, and as those of you who are here could see and knew, it's an incredibly practical book, extremely specific,

and looks like it doesn't do a whole lot in the way of theology, a lot of broad and grand themes, them if you read any of Paul's writings and most any of the other writers in the New Testament, and that's the reason why some people have called the book of James wisdom literature. I see in the Old Testament, wisdom literature you have, especially in the book of Proverbs, but also in Ecclesiastes and so on. In the book of Proverbs, you have all these little epigrammatic short case studies, and it's all about how to actually put into practice the righteousness of God, how to actually live out a Christian life, how to actually live out a believing life. And so in the Old Testament, you have wisdom literature, and everyone has said in the book of James, you've got really, in a sense, the New Testament version of wisdom literature. And if you've been here all during this time or a number of times, you'll know that. We finished it last week, and next week we have a special open forum, and it was announced tonight, and I hope a lot of you will bring friends. After that, we'll begin a new series. What I wanted to do tonight will help you if you've been coming for a while, and it'll also help you if you've never come before, or you haven't been part of that at all. Because in the Old Testament, a lot of people look at the Old Testament and you think, yeah, in the Old Testament, there was all this talk about law and obedience. But in the New Testament, that's where you get into forgiveness and grace and love. And that's really an unfair dichotomy. Because in the Old Testament, we're told that it's not just obedience that God's after, But in the book of Proverbs, in chapter 1, verse 7, in chapter 9, in a number of places in the book of Proverbs, we're told this. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. In the Old Testament, we're told that it's not just obedience that God wants, but he wants obedience out of fear, the fear of God. I'd like to show you that obedience without fear is like a body without a soul, is like a tire without air, you know, is like a glove without a hand in it, lifeless, useless. And that's actually in the book of James, all through the book of James, but the words are never used. And I would like to talk about this because somehow I've realized that in the teaching of late morning service, evening service over the last few months and years, this subject just yet it's really very, very important in understanding the Bible and understanding what it means to be a Christian. What does it mean to fear God? It's incredibly important. The passage that I have in front of you is one of many places in the Proverbs, in the wisdom literature, that this is brought up. And what's great about it is it not only tells you about, not only enjoins it, not only exhorts us to fear God, but it tells us something about how to do it, and then it even gives us a case study. and I thought I would look at this little passage. It's only two verses. I would look at the principle behind it and the case study and that will help us all, I think, come to understand what does it mean to fear God. It says here, and this is an exhortation, my son, even though it's not in this verse because this passage, there's a father exhorting his son, and basically it goes like this. My son, let not your heart envy sinners, sinners, but continue in the fear of the Lord all the day. Surely there is a future, and your hope will not be cut off. Proverbs 23, 17 and 18. Let not your heart envy sinners, but continue in the fear of the Lord all the day. Surely there is a future, and your hope will not be cut off. All right, what do we learn here? Here's what we learn. We learn that you have to fear the Lord, and secondly, we learn that you have to fear him all day. And thirdly, we have found that envy of the Lord, but there's a way to deal with it. Let's take a look at this. Fear of God. Well, give me a minute here. Give me a couple of minutes just to lay on you a number of passages of the Scripture that show you how absolutely critical the fear of God is. For example, in Job, the great book of Job, Job chapter 1, verse 8, God's speaking to Satan, and He says, have you considered my servant Job? There is none like him in all the earth, a man who fears God and shuns evil. You know, there's God saying, summing up, he says, have you considered my servant Job? He's the greatest man on the face of the earth. I guess somebody has to be at any given time and it must have been great to be. And he says, here's God actually saying, there is none like him in all the earth. Best man I've got, best person in the face of the earth. Why? He fears God. And shuns evil. We'll see those things have to go together. Let me give you another example. In the end of the book of Ecclesiastes, the writer says, well, he says, the end of the matter is this, and he's giving a summary. He says, fear God and keep his commandments. This is the whole duty of mankind. That's what it says. Fear God and keep his commandments. That's it. And you see what you have here is, even in the Old Testament, keeping his commandments was not the sum. It wasn't the thing. God says there has to be an internal relationship to me. There's got to be an internal attitude. There's got to be an internal engine, an internal dynamic. I don't just want obedience. Obedience, your obedience, and actually there's a number of places in the Old Testament where God says, your obedience is a stench in my nostrils because you don't fear me. Fear God and obey commandments. That's it. Inside, outside, that's everything God wants from us. See how important this is? Let me go one more step. It's interesting that in the Bible we're shown the fear of God is supposed to be the mainspring and the dynamic behind not only the greatest, but also the most menial of tasks. Interestingly, you have in 2 Samuel 2, 23, the last words of David. 2 Samuel 23, the last words of David before he dies. And he makes this statement sort of offhanded. It's sort of in passing, but it's very important. He says, when one rules over others in the fear of God, you are like the light of the dawn on a cloudless day. And on he goes. But you notice, is he says, a ruler, a president, a premier, a prime minister, a king, a queen, a ruler is supposed to rule in the fear of God. He says, if you rule in the fear of God, you'll be so unique, and there will be such tremendous blessings that accrue from your rule. But then, in Colossians 3.22, Paul is talking to slaves, Christian slaves. No one had a more menial set of tasks than slaves, and no one had a more boring and seemingly insignificant existence, and yet God says, it's possible for you to do your work heartily and with joy, even if your masters are rather cruel people. If you do it, he says, in the fear of God. Colossians 3.22, he says, even if you're a slave, you can have joy all day if you let the fear of God be the dynamic behind what you do. So here's David saying you should rule in the fear of God. And here's Paul saying, if you want to know as slaves is how you can deal with your slavery. The fear of God is supposed to be the dynamic behind everything you do everywhere, everything. Second Corinthians seven, one, Paul says, now let us purify ourselves from all-contaminating things and perfect holiness in the fear of the Lord. Here's Paul saying, if you want to reach the heights, if you want to reach the peaks of human greatness, if you want to reach the heights of holiness, the peaks of human development, you've got to get there through fear, the fear of the Lord. So you see, this isn't just an Old Testament thing, it's a New Testament thing. And of course, lastly, I'll just mention that place, it's in Psalm 111, It's in Proverbs 9, Proverbs 1. You've probably heard it. It's one of the more famous because it's so often repeated in the Old Testament and the New Testament. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. The fear of the Lord is the beginning. What's that mean? It means if you don't have the fear of the Lord, you're an idiot. Now, and I'm not being pejorative. I am being funny, but I'm not being pejorative. what it's saying is you may have all the knowledge in the world but without the fear of God, from the beginning you will misunderstand your knowledge you will misunderstand everything you know you will misapply it, you will misuse it but you won't even understand it without the fear of God there is no possibility of wisdom at all fear of God is the beginning of wisdom it doesn't come in for the second stage it's not like you can be wise up to a certain point page, it's the beginning of wisdom. All you can have without the fear of God is knowledge, no wisdom at all. This is pretty strong stuff. So on it goes and we're done with the first page. Now, look, the interesting thing is that the fear of God was clearly something that even in the Old Testament was God's way of saying to His people that it is not right conduct, but a right relationship with me that I'm after. It's not right conduct so much. Right conduct is secondary. Right conduct flows out. It's a right relationship. I want you to fear me, which means even in the Old Testament, the whole point was a right relationship with God. Conduct flew out of relationship, not the other way around. The gospel is conduct flows out of relationship. Not I conduct myself and then God rewards me with a relationship, but I enter into a relationship and my conduct flows out of that. That's Old Testament, that's New Testament. The gospel is all through. Now, what does it mean? But what does it mean? And the reason it's difficult, this is a difficult issue in some ways, is because we don't use the word fear the way that it's used when the Bible says the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. It's a little easier if trying to study the Old Testament because there's a couple of different Hebrew words, one of which means terror, another one means reverence. And in the Old Testament, it's not that hard to tell the difference between the two kinds of fear the Bible talks about, the good kind and the bad kind, the right kind and the wrong kind. In the New Testament, there's almost no way to tell without looking at the context. And one of the things that bothers me about one of my favorite translations, the New International Version, and that is because modern translators know that we modern people who speak English never use the word fear the way the Bible uses it. Many of the translators, when we get to it, you'll find now that they will, especially in the New Testament, they won't translate it as fear anymore. There it is in the Greek. It'll say phobia, which, of course, is where we get our word phobia, which means fear. There it is. It's the Greek word. It's right there. But they'll say reverence, or they'll say, And, you know, reverence to me means those Hallmark cards, you know. Okay. Let me find a spotlight. You see? The Hallmark, right? Reverence. You know, I was a Boy Scout. Scout is trustworthy, loyal, helpful, friendly, courteous, kind, obedient, cheerful, thrifty, brave, clean. Thank you. And I still remember the prepositions in German that take the date of case, too. You want those? And the last thing in the Boy Scout, whatever that was, I know it's sort of a code, reverent. A scout is reverent. Now, reverent means kind of quiet in church, you know, folded hands. That doesn't get it across. I'm sorry. That doesn't get it across. We've got to, what we have to do is we have to keep the word there, and we have to just learn that there's two different ways the Bible uses it. Now, the first kind of fear the Bible talks about negatively in 1 John 4.18, it says fear has to do with punishment. This is a quote from 1 John 4.18. Fear has to do with punishment, but perfect love casts out fear. In the old King James Version, it says, the old authorized version, it says, There is a fear that hath torment, but perfect love casteth out fear. Now, that's the normal way we use the word fear. And let me tell you what this is. This is the first kind of fear. And I'm going to tell you what this is. This is a fear which I will define as dread. It's dread of being hurt. Dread of being hurt. That's mostly what we mean by fear. We're afraid when we think we're going to get hit. We're afraid when we think we're going to be in pain. Something's going to happen. It's a dread of being in fear. Pardon me, and that's what fear is. And it's interesting, when this fear grips you, you become very self-absorbed. You become extremely aware of your needs and your danger and your peril. And you can be so aware that you can be paralyzed. Very often we talk about fear paralyzing. But that's the reason why 1 John 4.18 says that this kind of fear is the opposite of love. It's so interesting that the Bible does not say the opposite of love is hate. The opposite of love is fear. The Bible doesn't say the opposite of fear is peace. The opposite of fear is love. This kind of fear. The fear that hath torment. Dread from being hurt. Why? Because they are opposites. Fear and love are total opposites. You cannot love without a willingness to be hurt. And when you go into a relationship and say, I'll I'll love you as long as you don't hurt me. That's not love. And that's another subject. Fear is the exact opposite. Fear is the turtle peeling the shell. Fear is the thing that is totally absorbed with my needs. Love is totally absorbed in the needs of the other person. Fear is that which says, I can't take this risk. Love is the one that opens yourself and makes yourself vulnerable. Fear is the exact opposite of love. Fear, this kind of fear, is a dread at being hurt. Now, God can inspire this kind of fear. and a bad kind. There's a negative and a positive. There's a kind that the Bible says is bad that we have to get rid of, and then there's a kind that is good that we're going to talk about here in a second. But having said that, I guess that's only one way to look at it because there's a certain sense in which God does inspire this kind of fear. The Bible says with God there is terrible majesty. The majesty of God, the claims of God, the sovereignty of God, they do fear. They do fill people with this kind of fear, the fear that hath torment. And, you know, I said it's bad fear, and I guess it's bad, but there's another sense in which that's reasonable. It's reasonable for most people to be scared of God. Sure it is. Why? Well, the Bible tells us that deep in our hearts, we all know that there is a God who we should obey. We all know that there's a creator deep in our hearts, and we all know, therefore we owe him everything and he should be in charge of our lives. We also know, and this is something that isn't that repressed, we all know that we try to call the shots in our own lives. We try to decide what's right and wrong for ourselves. In other words, we are playing God to us. Now, if you're impersonating a policeman, if you're not really a policeman but you're dressed up as a policeman, you might after a while get pretty confident. But there is a situation that starts to make you feel pretty scared. What? When a real policeman starts coming toward you. If a real policeman starts to move toward you, you get scared. You're going to be exposed. You're going to be seen for the fraud that you are. And so when the real policeman gets near you, you're scared. Now, this is the reason why the Bible says that most people are scared of God. They may talk about being angry and they may talk about not knowing Him, but they're scared. Because you see, sin in the heart is that which tells you obey the God who claims absolute authority over you, you're going to be unhappy. Sin is that which makes you treat God as an enemy. And so when that God comes near and you know deep in your heart that he has the right to be your sovereign and he's got the power to be your sovereign, we're scared. We are scared. There is a fear that hath torment and God arouses it in us. As Martin Luther puts it, if you do not approach God through the gospel of Jesus Christ, you will find, as you get near a consuming fire, you will find him traumatic. You will find him inspiring this kind of fear. And it's perfectly reasonable. You ought to be scared. A person impersonating a police officer ought to be scared when a real police officer comes near. And so in the same way, people do get scared of God. Now, this is a fear that we want to get rid of, though, of course. This is why in 1 John 4.18 says this is the opposite of love. So the first kind of fear is a dread at being hurt. Now, there's another kind of fear. And when the Bible says you must fear God, it's talking about something else. Now, to show you how it's different, you have to find certain passages. One interesting passage is Psalm 28, verse 14, where we read, Blessed is the one who feareth always. Blessed is the one who feareth always. In other words, the more you fear in this kind of fear, this kind of fear, the fear of God, the fear that God wants, the happier you get. Well, that doesn't seem to make much sense, does it? Because we don't use the word that way. When we think of fear, we're not thinking of the second kind of fear. We're not thinking about what I'm going to call Holy fear. You know, we have a song about that. You see? Holy fear. The old kind of fear, the first kind of fear, doesn't make us happy at all. It makes us miserable. But there's a kind of fear, there's a Holy fear, that the more you fear, the happier you get. Not only that, then here's the kicker, and this is the most interesting one. If you read Psalm 130, verse 4, in a lot of modern translations, the translators will back away from what it really says. Here's what it really says. There is forgiveness of sins with thee. Well, this is the old King James. It actually says it right. There is forgiveness of sins with thee that thou mayest be feared. And what that is saying is, the psalmist says, I see that you are a gracious God. I see that you are a forgiving God. And that makes me fear you. That's what it says. I see your forgiveness. I see your grace. I see your mercy. And it fills me with a holy fear. Now, what kind of fear can grow at the sight of grace? What kind of fear is a fear that's a joyful fear? Happy is the one who fears always. Well, the fear of God, the holy fear, is an inward condition of awe and amazement before the glory and the wonder and the power and the grace of this God. It's an inward condition of amazement, of awe, of fear and trembling. It's the awe of appreciation. Now, let me give you the best example I can give you. Kathy knows this, that I make myself tea once a day. I can't do more than that because, you know, loose-leaf tea, not the bag tea, loose-leaf tea is really pretty caffeine powerful. So I make myself a cup of tea once a day if I can. And I got little teapots, a little kind of blue china teapot. And I'm fairly careful with it, but not unusually careful with it. And what if somebody came to see me and he looked at the pot and he says, Oh, do you know what? This is 800 years old. This is absolutely rare. This is priceless. This is a priceless antiquity. Don't let Indiana Jones see this. You have no idea. You have here a fabulous amount of wealth right here in your hands. Now, what would I do? I would be filled with dread, but a great dread, a joyful dread, but it would be a dread at misusing this pot. My teapot, my teapot, look at this, zillions of dollars, my little teapot, you see, zillions of dollars, and I would suddenly be desperately afraid of breaking it, or chipping it, or hurting it in any way. I would suddenly, of course I would give it a place of honor, I would use it in very, very different ways. My whole set of behaviors, all my behaviors would change because of a new inward condition, I'd be in awe of it. I'd be amazed. I'd think about it and see its value. And there's a new dread, but it's not a dread of being hurt. It's a dread of causing hurt. It's not a dread of being hurt. It's a dread of offending or defiling in any way. And it's a dread. It's even an excruciating thing. I mean, to be filled with amazement before the value of this thing is excruciating. Now you see what I'm saying. Don't you see what we're talking about? The psalmist, in the Bible, you get before the glory of God. You get before the power of God. You get before the grace of God. And you see it. You can either just know it and say, sure, I know that. Or you can be filled with fear. You can let it touch you. You can get a sense of it on your heart. You can let it fill you with fear. And when it fills you with fear, it changes everything. You see, that's the reason why it says here, let not your heart envy sinners. We'll get to that here in a second, but just a little case study at the end of the sermon, but continue in the fear of the Lord all the day. Now, that means this thing, it does not mean go around in a spiritual trance all the time. It can't mean that. This must be somewhat under your control. To be filled with fear is a discipline. And what is it a discipline of? It's to take an attribute something of God and to reflect and chew and think about it until you create that inward condition of amazement so that it affects the way you live. Like, for example, are you worried? You're not looking at the wisdom of God and the love of God. You're not in amazement about that. Now, if you're a Christian, you can enter into that. You can enter into that. You can reflect. You can ask the Spirit of God to illuminate you so that his wisdom is no longer a concept that becomes alive at your operative center. That's what it means to fear God. Now, here's my question. Are you worried tonight or are you fearing God? You can't do both. You can't live in awe and amazement before the wisdom of God. Are you filled with self-pity? Why don't you get out his grace and say, you know what, what if God actually gave me what I deserved? What am I feeling so sorry for myself for? You fear God. Or you can be in self-pity, but you can't be in both. You take out an attribute of God and you connect yourself to God. You connect yourself to that attribute. You take the attribute and you say, why am I not affected by this? I'm going to bring it into my operative center. I'm going to live out of this today. Continue in the fear all day long. Are you worried, or do you fear God? Are you filled with self-pity, or do you fear God? Are your feelings all hurt because somebody criticized you, or do you fear God? Do you see what you do? Somebody criticizes you. Well, you have to go and you have to say, well, you know what? God has told me that I'm a worse sinner than this person even knows. But he loves me. I've got his approval. What do I need that person's approval for? Besides that, they're partly right. What are you doing there? Instead of being all hurt, you're thinking about what happened to you through an attribute of God. Now, I have to be careful here, but let me... I know I've decided that though it arouses some anxiety on the parts of real Christians when I say this, that it's just as well. I don't mind saying it. The difference between a real Christian and a religious person is a real Christian has the fear of God. That means that there is a sense on your heart. You don't just know God's holy, but you can, when you think about it and you look at it, you can sense the loveliness, the loveliness of that holiness. You know maybe God is gracious and he died for your sins, the religious person, but the Christian is somebody who has a sense on the heart, the fear of God. And that's the reason why you have this. This is one of zillions and zillions of passages that I could read you. Zillions of passages. But this is because Jonathan Edwards, a great theologian, put it this way many times. He says, he's continually saying, what's the difference between a real Christian and a religious person? He says it's the difference between knowing that honey is sweet and actually having a taste of honey. He says,

of the joy that they will have forever and ever. He's saying it's one thing to know, it's another thing to fear. It's nothing to know about God, the attributes of God. It's nothing to fear. How do you know that you're a Christian? You can taste the attributes of God. You can bring it into your heart and actually have it affect you. I have a totally different set of behaviors toward my teapot now because of this inward condition. It's an inward condition. This is not just a feeling. Oh no, this is not just an emotion. Uh-uh. This is a sense heart that affects not only your thinking because your mind kind of goes crazy, but does, of course, move you emotionally to some degree. Some of us have more emotional temperaments than others, but this is more than an emotion. Your mind is awakened by the attribute of God, and you're moved, and you change. And you see, there's a kind of obedience that comes from the fear that dreads being hurt. I better obey or God's going to get me. And that's the reason why you pray. So many of you pray only when you're in trouble. Things go bad and you're starting to pray. Things go well and you don't have time. That's the reason why so many people only start going to church when they're in trouble. And they say, gosh, maybe God's going to punish me for something. That's the fear that has torment. Or you can find that from the holy fear, the joyful fear, you find yourself now wanting to obey, but for a completely different reason. 1 John 5, 3. of God, that we not only have his commandments but that his commandments are not grievous. His commandments are not grievous. That we find because of the fear, because of the value of that pot, I have no problem going to a great deal of trouble for it. I have no problem coming and building a display case. A couple thousand dollars, what the heck? It's worth three million. You see, the value of the pot means that everything else that I am doing, The things that would have been very expensive to me now is nothing. You know what it said about Jacob and Rachel? Laban, the mean daddy, said, Jacob, if you want Rachel, you have to work for her for seven years. And what does it say in Genesis 29, 20? It says, Jacob labored after Rachel for seven years, but it seemed just like a few days because he loved her so. Are the commandments of God grievous to you? You don't fear him. You're not in an inward condition of awe before his value. Nathan Cole, a carpenter, a farmer from Connecticut, who was born again after hearing George Whitefield preach in 1740, he tells his story. He actually wrote his testimony. It's a great testimony. He was listening to George Whitefield preach in the fields of Connecticut. I've memorized the end of the testimony, or the end of how he got converted. He said, my hearing him preach gave me a heart wound, and my old foundation was broken up, and I saw that my righteousness could not save me. But then he goes on, and this is what he says. He says, I had for some years a bitter prejudice against three very scornful men that had wronged me, but now all that was gone away clear, and my soul longed for them and loved them. Why? Because I knew now that there was nothing sinful that I could in any way bring into the presence God. He doesn't say, oh, gee, I'm going to have to forgive these three guys. Well, I guess that's the price you pay if you want to get to heaven. Well, all right, what do I have to do? I mean, that's how most of us go about it. The commandments are grievous. His commandments drive us into the ground. But not, look what Nathan called, it's out of the fear of God. He says, you know what? He says, I used to hate these people. I had a bitter prejudice against these three scornful men, but now all that was gone away clear in my soul longed for them and loved them. There was nothing that was sinful that could in any wise abide the presence of God, and all my air was love. I didn't get to envying sinners, did I? Well, time's up. What it says here, I don't know, you know what it says here? It was a little case study. I can give it to you in 60 seconds. You see what he's doing? He says, don't envy sinners, but fear the Lord all day long. wrong. One of the things, I said self-pity you deal with by fear. Temptation, temptation you deal with by fear. Resentment you deal with by fear. See, everything you deal with by fear. Well, the guy writing the Proverbs gives you an example. He says, what if you're envious of sinners? What if you see people who don't, haven't worked like you have, they don't believe, they're very immoral, they're backstabbers. And look at them, look at their careers, Look at their figures. Look at their bank accounts. Look at their friends. They have so much more than you do. How do you deal with that? In New York City, it's incredible. I mean, you live out in the suburbs. You live in these sort of homogeneous tracks, and everybody has the same size home as you do. And we always try to keep the other... Suburbs are really weird. I mean, they're very homogeneous, and we keep people who are a lot richer who make us feel bad, and a lot poorer who make us feel unsafe. We keep them away. That's different. In the city, you walk down the street, and you see people a lot poorer and a lot better off than you, and unfortunately, you see a lot of people that are a lot better off than you all the time. How do you deal with that envy? Fear God. Remember that there's a judgment day. Stand back and look. There's a future. Your hope will not be cut off. In other words, you don't deal with envy by saying, I shouldn't envy. Bad Christian. Stop envying. I shouldn't do that. You see? You know? Cut that out. I shouldn't be resentful. Bad Christian. I need to forgive them. What do I have to do? Oh, no, that's not what Nathan Cole said. He said, I was so filled with a sense of the wondrousness of this God, I couldn't bring anything sinful into his presence. I wouldn't want to do anything to grieve him. I wouldn't want to do anything to offend him. There's a fear, which is a dread of being hurt, which is the opposite of love. And then there's a fear that is a dread of giving hurt or grief or offense to God, and that is love itself. Let's pray. Thank you, Father, for giving us the insights from this text. Help us to not envy sinners, not be filled with self-pity, not be filled with anger and resentment, not be filled with worry, not be filled with any of these things, but rather let us fear you and continue in that fear all the day long, and our hope will not be cut off. Thank you for all these great assurances. We pray them in Jesus' name. Amen.
