In your bulletin, there's a pretty long passage printed from 1 Kings, verse 19. And it's part, as you will see, of a much longer narrative, but this is really the climax of it, and we'll read it and see what we can learn from it. Now we're talking about Elijah here in the very first verse. There he went into a cave and spent the night. And the word of the Lord came to him. What are you doing here, Elijah? He replied, I have been very zealous for the Lord God Almighty. The Israelites have rejected your covenant, broken down your altars, and have put your prophets to death with a sword. I am the only one left, and now they are trying to kill me too. And the Lord said, Go out and stand on the mountain in the presence of the Lord, is about to pass by. And then a great and powerful wind tore the mountains apart and shattered the rocks before the Lord. But the Lord was not in the wind. After the wind there was an earthquake, but the Lord was not in the earthquake. After the earthquake came a fire, but the Lord was not in the fire. And after the fire came a gentle whisper. And when Elijah heard it, he pulled his cloak over his face and went out and stood at the mouth of the cave. And then a voice said to him, what are you doing here, Elijah? He replied, I have been very zealous for the Lord God Almighty. The Israelites have rejected your covenant, broken down your altars, and put your prophets to death with the sword. I am the only one left, and now they're trying to kill me too. And the Lord said to him, go back the way you came and go to the desert of Damascus. And when you get there, anoint Hazael, king over Aram. Also anoint Jehu, son of Nimshi, king over Israel. And anoint Elisha, son of Shaphath, from the Abel, Mahola, to succeed you as prophet. Jehu will put to death any who escape the sword of Haziel, and Elisha will put to death any who escape the sword of Jehu. Yet I reserve 7,000 in Israel, all whose knees have not bowed down to Baal, and all whose mouths have not kissed him. This is God's word. We're in a series in which we're looking at individuals who have met God in a particularly poignant way, who have actually come into the presence of God. Just a note, the Bible teaches us basically through biographies. It teaches us through biography. And just for a how wise that is. It's savvy educationally. It's a savvy educational method because we all know that we get bored with abstract truth, but when it comes to a life, a story, we get involved with it. We remember it. It's much more interesting. But more importantly, the fact that the Old Testament is basically stories, biographies of real human beings, it points to the fact, as we mentioned this morning, actually. It points to the fact that when God decided to send salvation, he didn't send an airtight argument. He sent an airtight person. He didn't send an abstract principle. He sent a human being. And that's the reason why John, in chapter 1 of his gospel, he says, in the beginning was the Word, was the Logos. Now, that wasn't particularly controversial because the Greek philosophers for years had said, sure, the logos is the meaning of life, the reason for life, the logic of the universe. Sure, God would have it. They've been trying to figure out what it was for years. And so when John says, in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, the logos was with God, that wasn't new, that wasn't revolutionary, that wasn't even controversial. But then when he says the Word became flesh and dwelled among us, and we beheld His glory. That was revolutionary. Salvation is a person. The principle has become a human being, you see. The truth has got flesh. Now, basically, all the way through the Bible, instead of giving us abstractions, he gives us flesh. And that's the reason why we learn so much when we really see these flesh and blood people. And boy, I tell you, there's nobody more flesh, and blood, perhaps, than Elijah. Let me tell you, let's do what we usually do. Let's tell the story, and then let's draw out the lessons from it. Now, the story goes like this, and you have to jump back. We have to go back a chapter, and we have to start this way. In chapter 18, not chapter 19, in chapter 18, you have about the most dramatic, spectacular event in all of the Bible. I have no idea why it hasn't been made into a movie, It's got movie written all over it. Maybe it has. Somebody's going to tell me about it afterwards, but it never has. And here's how it goes, and it's very important. Israel,

for centuries, Israel had a trouble with idol worship. You see, Israel believed that there was one true God, and all around Israel were other cultures that were pagan in their approach. Now, nowadays, the word pagan is just a pejorative term, but paganism is a worldview. And basically, the biblical worldview is that there's one true God, one power center, and one truth. There's one God, one power center, one truth. Paganism said there's multiple gods, there's multiple power centers, and there's multiple, therefore, truths. Very different. And over the years, of course, the Israelites had gone through what you might say spiritual cycles. Sometimes they fell into a lot of idol worship, and idol worship became something, paganism became something very widespread, you know, large pockets. And then there would be a revival in the sense that a judge or a king or someone, a leader would rise up or a particularly fastidious priest or a charismatic type priest and would purify the country. And people would turn back to the worship of the true God. But something happened when Ahab, the king of Israel, married Jezebel, who was the daughter of the priest-king of Tyre and Sidon. And she was a fanatical devotee of the Tyrian Baal. Now, the Tyrian Baal was basically Baal, the god of Tyre. And what she did was something that she was able to do when she got married. She married Ahab as one of these political alliance things that you know from studying history very often happen. She was able to do something that really no other that had ever happened before in Israel, and that was she was able to install the worship of Baal as the official national religion of Israel. And she brought over hundreds of prophets and priests of Baal and set up shop instead of really just there being a whole lot of pockets of worship. Now what we had was we had a central cultus. We had a central religious establishment. They had it all, in a sense. They had seminaries. They had credentials. They had worship centers. They had a hierarchy. They probably had a printing place. In other words, they had the system. They created a system. And this was the most dire. This was the greatest spiritual peril that Israel had ever been in. And so God sends Elijah. And he also sends a drought. In other words, God, in order to waken Israel up, got rid of the rain. There was one of the worst famines, one of the worst droughts that Israel had ever known. The economy was in tatters. And at the height of this, God sends Elijah to Ahab. And this is really where it gets dramatic, unbelievably dramatic. Ahab, pardon me, Elijah goes and meets Ahab, and he challenges Ahab to send all the prophets of Baal to Mount Carmel. And he essentially challenges them to spiritual equivalent of the shootout at the O.K. Corral. He says, I'll tell you what we're going to do. You can bring all of those prophets of Baal up to the mountain, and I will stand as the prophet of Yahweh, the God of Israel, and we will both pray to God to end the drought, to hear our prayer, and let the true God send rain to Israel. See, this is something. You know, this is what you would do, what you would make movies about. Ahab says, you're on. And probably one of the reasons why was that Baal was a fertility god. And because Baal was a fertility god, the idea of Baal being able to send rain, even in the pagan structure, the pagan mentality would be that a god of fertility would be able to bring rain because rain is what you need to have fertile land and so on. And so not only did 450 prophets show up on Mount Carmel, but also Elijah, all by himself on the other side. You know, in this corner, 450 prophets. In this corner, Elijah. And thousands of Israelites came up onto the mountain to watch. Thousands of them wanted to come and watch this contest. I mean, who wouldn't? And Elijah says, I can be fair. So he says, you go first. The prophets of Baal build an altar and they slew a bull as a sacrifice and then they worked. And what did they do? They began to pray. Not only did they just begin to pray, but they began to dance. They danced around the altar and they began to pray. And it went on for hours. There was no answer. The Bible tells us, it says it went on from early until noon, early in the morning until noon, and they started to get frantic. After they were dancing and they were running around praying out to Baal to please send rain, they started to cut themselves. They began to cut themselves, as it says, as was their habit. It says, then they called on the name of Baal from morning until noon. O Baal, answer us, they shouted, but there was no response. No one answered, so they danced around the altar they had made. At noon, Elijah began to taunt them. Shout louder, he said. Perhaps he's deep in thought. or busy, or traveling, maybe sleeping and must be awakened. I see that, you know, when you read the Bible, you always say, these guys never, never behave like I would, but here's a guy who does. Here's somebody who says, this is exactly what you'd say. Man, you know, my God can look your God, and I'm going to go to the mountain, and I'm going to show you. And of course, you know, Elijah sees them falling behind, you know, and he gets excited, and he says, maybe he's sleeping, and so on. Actually, you know, translations never say it, but it basically says maybe he's on the toilet. It says maybe he's sleeping and must be awakened. But I don't know which verb. In the NIV, it says perhaps he's deep in thought or busy, yeah, or traveling. That word busy. That's the word. No translation ever wants to say he's off urinating. And actually, I probably never said that into the mic in seven years of being here. you know what, it's really a bad idea to try to be more holy than the word of God. So he shouts and he taunts them and it says, so they shouted louder and slashed themselves with swords and spears as was their custom until their blood flowed. Have mercy on us. See our commitment. Have pity on us. Midday passed and they continued their frantic prophesying until the time for the evening sacrifice. But there was no response. No one answered. No one paid attention. This is just is great storytelling. And then Elijah arose. And it was evening. He'd given them all day. And Elijah rose and said, first of all, let's build a new altar. And he built a new altar, 12 stones for the 12 tribes of Israel. And he sacrificed a bull on it. But then he said, throw water on it. And everybody said, what? He said, water. Not just a little bit of water, lots of water. Soak this thing. Soak the bull. Soak the sacrifice. And they poured so much water on it because he kept on saying more, that the water just came down around it and there was a trench around it and it filled up the trench. He wanted to make sure that nobody thought there was any trick. He wanted to make sure nobody, everybody, nobody afterwards could say it was spontaneous combustion. And so after they filled four large jars with water, poured on the offering and it ran all over the wood and all over everything. Then at that time the prophet Elijah stepped forward and prayed, O Lord, God of Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, let it be known today that you are God in Israel and that I am your servant and have done all these things at your command. Answer me, O Lord, answer me, so that these people will know that you, O Lord, are God and that you are turning their hearts back again. He just said one prayer. Thirty seconds. And at that, fire came down. what actually happened was, according to this, first of all, the fire sprang up and began to consume the bull. But it got higher and greater, and it began to consume the altar. And finally, and remember, this is a wet altar now. Next thing you know, it says, what does it say? It says, then the fire of the Lord burned up the sacrifice, the wood, and the stones, and the soil, and licked up all the water in the trench. The people began to fall back because this enormous blaze didn't come up and start to consume the bull, it began to consume everything. Next thing you know, this very, very huge altar was completely gone. It had been eaten up. It had been disintegrated. It was gone. And next thing you know, the soil and the rocks and the stones, everything, and the people fell back. And what does it say? They fell down in absolute amazement. They fell down probably in heat prostration. And on the ground, they began to yell. On the ground, they began to shout, the Lord, he is God. The Lord, he is God. And people began to shout, people began to scream. And Elijah raises his voice up above the tumult and says, now it's time to turn back, kill the prophets of Baal. And the people rose up and slaughtered them. And then Elijah and his servant looked off the mountain while all this was going on, and they saw what this is the way it was put, a little cloud, no bigger than a man's hand, arising out of the sea. And Elijah came over to Ahab, and I just can imagine the look on his face. And he says, hitch up your chariot and get down the mountain before the rain overtakes you. And then the sky grew black with clouds and the wind rose and a heavy rain came on and Ahab rode off to Jezreel, which was his capital. And the power of the Lord came upon Elijah and tucking his cloak into his belt, he ran all the way to Jezreel himself. That's how the chapter ends. And a lot of commentators are going to be, you'll see why, a lot of commentators say, there's something wrong here. That was the end of chapter 18. There's no way that chapter 19 could have really come after chapter 18, because this is what happens. Why was he running to Jezreel? Ahab was on the run. The rain was coming down. The altar had been consumed. Essentially, the entire cultists of been destroyed. And Elijah says, finally. And he ran to Jezreel because he figured one of two things were going to happen. Either Ahab and Jezebel would fall on the ground and say, the Lord, he is God. The Lord, he is God. This is about, listen, if you can imagine a more spectacular demonstration of the existence of the true God, I want to think of a better one. Just tell me one. Imagine doing this at Rockefeller Center. All the media there. I mean, what more could you ask for? What greater demonstration could you possibly ask for? So he said, either they're going to fall down and say, the Lord, He is God, or else the people will rise up and cast them out. And God will again be the God of Israel. He said, I've done it. I've done everything I wanted. I worked out my program. Everything was going to go fine. So he runs to Jezreel, but he stopped before he even gets to the capital. It says, now Ahab had told Jezebel everything Elijah had done. remember, you know, Ahab was in a chariot, and how he killed all the prophets with a sword. So Jezebel sent a messenger to Elijah to stop him and say, may the gods deal with me, be it ever so severely, if by this time tomorrow I do not make you like one of them. And Elijah was afraid and ran for his life. And when he had come to Beersheba in Judah, he left his servant there. Why did he leave his servant? And then it says, he went a day's journey into the desert, and he came to a broom tree and sat down under it and prayed that he might die. I have had enough, Lord, he said. Take my life. I am no better than my ancestors. And then he lay down under the tree and fell asleep. Now, what do you see here? The reason he let go of his servant was he had no need for him. He was out of the ministry. Not only that, he had gone out there and he said, Kill me. Now, you know, this is something very, very important to see. A lot of commentators, a lot of interpreters have said, this is bad editing. The story of 1 Kings 18, the incident of Mount Carmel, and this incident here when he gets despair, he gets suicidal, he falls into utter despondency, and he asks God to take his life away. These things couldn't have happened that close together. Look, this is verse 46 of 18. It says, and the power of the Lord came upon Elijah, and tucking his cloak into his belt, he ran to Jezreel. Four verses later, four verses later, he says, I have had enough, Lord. Take my life. I am nothing. I am no better than my ancestors. And some commentators say, there's no way that a person at the height of his success, there's no way that a person who's not only serving the Lord, but serving the Lord successfully, who is filled with the Holy Spirit, the power of who has brought about this incredible triumph. There's really nothing like it anywhere else in the Bible. Four verses later, he is in despondency, and he's in despair, and he wants to kill himself. They said, that just can't happen. And you know what? That tells you nothing about the text. It tells you a lot about the interpreters. It tells you that they don't know much about the human condition. It also tells you they probably don't know much about Christianity because, you know, I can think of three people who said, Lord, take my life away. 11, Elijah here in 1 Kings 19, Jonah in Jonah chapter 4. These are not weak links in the body. These are not immature people. In fact, there's actually some, if you look carefully, you'll see in every case they've just had a tremendous success. This is telling us, the Bible is telling us that the strongest Christians, the strongest believers, in fact, people who are very effective because of their effectiveness in service, get suicidally depressed. It's the integrity of the Bible, don't you think, to show us this, to tell us this. It's important for us to see. There's a realism about the Scripture. There's a realism about Christianity. And what do we see that God does? Well, he does three things. And the first one I have to read to you, and the second two you read, and then we will draw out the lessons. He fell asleep, and at once an angel touched him and said, get up and eat. He looked around, and there by his head was a cake of bread baked over hot coals and a jar of water. He ate and drank and then lay down again. And the angel of the Lord came back a second time and touched him and said, get up and eat, for the journey is too much for you. So he got up and ate and drank. Strengthened by that food, he traveled 40 days and 40 nights till he reached Horeb, the mountain of God. And there he went into a cave and spent the night. And the rest we read. And if you think about it, you'll see that there's really three things that God does. The first thing God does for a depressed Elijah is he does nothing. He doesn't lecture him, doesn't counsel him, nothing. He sends an angel. And all the angel does is cook. It's amazing he says get up and the angel has created a cake right okay I'm going to say it before you say it's angel food cake there it is that's all he does the second time he bakes him another meal and all he says is the journey is too much for you no lectures no counseling no support groups no therapy no calls to repentance nothing. You need a good meal. You need a good sleep. You need a good rest. That's the first thing. The second thing he does is he meets them on Mount Sinai. Mount Horeb is Mount Sinai, the mountain of God. And he comes to them, and he says, I want you to experience the presence of the Lord. So he goes out, and out comes, first of all, an incredible wind. It tears the rocks apart. And then after that, I mean, that's a wind, okay? That's a wind. And then after that comes fire. Earthquake, wind, and fire. The three signs of the presence of God in terms of judgment. They are forbidding things. They are destructive things. And yet, Elijah realizes that God is not in them. God is not able, you can't talk to God in these things. It doesn't mean that they're they haven't been sent by God. It doesn't mean that they aren't outskirts of his ways and so forth. It doesn't mean that God doesn't judge, but that's not how I'm going to find God. He's not in them. And then suddenly up comes a gentle whisper. The old King James Bible says it's a still small voice. Literally in the Hebrew, it says there was a quiet breath and he put his hood over his face because he realized now I'm talking to God and he listened. And so the second thing was there was counseling there. I'll tell you what that is in a minute. And the third thing he says is I want you to get back to work. Go anoint Hazael king over Aram which is Syria. I want you to anoint Jehu who will be the new king over Israel and I want you to anoint Elisha and raise him up as a leader because he's going to be the prophet after you. So the three things he does is he gives them arrest he gives them counseling and he sends them off back to work. what do we learn? Number one, I would say actually Elijah learned something about the world, something about himself, and something about the Lord. First of all, he learns this about the world. This is very important. Elijah's pride made him too optimistic and then too pessimistic. You see, what's very interesting about what he learns about the world is he thought, if he got his way, he thought if his program would work, everything would be put right. And he's just overwhelmed and he's overcome, and he's shocked and he's surprised and he's in despair over just how deeply entrenched the evil of the world is, just how wicked people are, how sinful people are, how stupid people are. You know what? See, what actually happened was pretty much like this. If you would do this at Rockefeller Center and all the media were there, and two days later, nobody thought that meant we should change anything about our lives. It was just that, wow, that was quite a show. Singed my whiskers, and that's it. And Elijah is amazed. He says, how in the world could people see something like that and not have their hearts turned back? Remember, that was his prayer. Lord, this is going to turn people's hearts back, and it didn't. Elijah was in despair because he really had an inadequate understanding of sin. His theology of sin just was very shallow. And he is totally bummed out. He's totally surprised at how sinful people really are. And you're going to be in despair unless you deepen your theology of sin. But actually, if you think about it, the reason his theology of sin was shallow was actually because his pride was so great. When I was preparing for this talk, I listened to a tape of Dick Lucas' tape, and Dick Lucas is a British pastor, and he was speaking on this subject, and he found this very interesting quote in a British paper that most of you have probably never heard of, but it's like the Times or the Wall Street Journal or something like that. It's called The Spectator. Not a Christian newspaper at all, but he found this very, very interesting quote, and this is what the quote said. Whether you're a communist, a fascist, or a libertarian, the real problem we have is not what we think the program ought to be, but that we think our program will solve the problems. These people believe if only their theory were enacted and accepted, all would be well. They think that there is a correct analysis of society as a society where a machine, and you only have to remove the monkey wrench in the works for it to function perfectly. because of this belief the world lives in a ferment of extravagant hope and bitter disappointment every day politicians promise health and wealth and peace newspapers demand an end to crime or crash programs to stop poverty sickness or cruelty to children and every day politicians and newspapers therefore are forced to admit that people are still poor and still ill and still fighting one another and still dying and therefore they desperately have to blame their enemies for all this wickedness. All this is pride. Now the reason that's such an important quote, the reason that he brought that up and the reason I'm bringing it up is they're right. If you believe that the real problem out there in the world is that my program isn't being followed, you instead of seeing the real problem out there as the depth of sin in people's hearts, you will assume that the reason the world is in the mess it's in is because of your enemies. In other words, if you're a conservative politically, and some of you are, or if you're a liberal politically, and some of you are, if you're a Christian, this is something you've got to utterly avoid. If you're a conservative politically, you must not demonize the liberals. If you understand sin, you know that the real problem of the world is not liberal policies. And if you're a liberal and you're a Christian, you would never demonize the conservatives if you have a decent doctrine of sin that the real problem of the world is not conservative policies. But the fact of the matter is unless you have a deep, deep understanding of the inveterateness of evil and actually the irreducibility of evil and unless you understand just how deep that is in human hearts and therefore how partial any victory will ever be between now and the time the Lord comes back you will demonize people. Because of your pride. You'll always be upset. You will live, as they said, in a ferment of extravagant hope and bitter disappointment and fury at your enemies and sometimes despair. And it's all because pride in your program, which is concomitant with a shallow understanding of sin. And that's one of the reasons you're going to be depressed. But it's not just that we have to apply this to the politics. I'll go one step further. Elijah is being shown here, and we are being shown here, that we've got to be very, very careful to think that our little program is going to solve anybody's problems ultimately. Have you ever found that you've invested in somebody and you've invested in them and they're doing well and they fall back? Or have you felt like you were doing so well and you've had these great victories and the next thing you know you do something and you say, how in the world am I capable of that? You'll be in despair unless you learn what Elijah learned the hard way. You see, your little program is never going to completely overcome it. All the victories are partial. And it's pride that's leading you to your despair. But when Elijah gets down in despair, God sort of, what does he do? First of all, Elijah says, I'm the only Christian left, in a sense. Now, he's not using the word Christian. He says, I'm the only one left. There's nobody else in all of Israel. And what does God say? He does two things. The first thing he says is, there's at least 7,000 people who also serve me. Now, do you know what's going on here? This is very, very typical. As I said, pride is what keeps you from really seeing how God is at work. Pride leads to that utopianism, but pride also leads to your pessimism. One of the reasons that Christians are always in despair about the way things are is because we have a tendency to look at ourselves and we say, yeah, over there's that church and they kind of believe and over there's that church and they kind of believe but we're the only ones that really have it together. And because of your pride you say, we're the only ones. I mean, Kathy and I do this to each other all the time. Just try to, we know that there's something in our heart that makes us want to think we're the only ones that really have it together. And sometimes we say, well, you know, every Christian in the world is unbalanced but me and you, dear. And you know, sometimes I wonder about you. And we do that. Why do we do that? We have to make fun of ourselves because we know that Catholics will say, you Protestants, you're kind of believers, but really you don't have it together. And Protestants will say, you Catholics, you're kind of believers, but you don't really have it together. And the Charismatics will say, you here at Redeemer, you know, you don't have the Holy Spirit. And the people at Redeemer will look around and say, you guys are kind of into emotionalism. And because of our pride, we start to say there's nothing going on, just our poor little corner, you see. And it's pride that leads you to not see what God is doing in the world. God says, I'm doing all kinds of stuff, but your pride is keeping you from seeing it. Your pride led you to this ridiculous optimism that has brought you down, and now your pride is keeping you in this pessimism you need to get up. And then he actually says, and this is to me amazing, he says, go anoint Hazael, Israel, the king of Syria. Now, this is absolutely astounding. A prophet of Israel is going to anoint a pagan king. There is no indication anywhere that this guy was a believer, and there's no indication that he ever became a believer. And what is God saying? God is saying, Elijah, I am in charge. Elijah, I am doing my work. I'm using pagans. I'm using people that aren't in your court to keep wisdom alive, to keep beauty alive. I'm working out. I'm doing things. What's the matter with you? See, if you have a proper understanding of God's grace, deep understanding, and a proper understanding of God's sin, of our sin, in other words, you have a good understanding of our sin and also see how God in his grace is working with all kinds of people who aren't correct. If you don't see that God does things through grace and the depth of our sin, if you don't understand sin and grace, which is the gospel, you're going to be whiplashed back and forth from extravagant hopes to utter despair, just like Elijah. It's very important. That's what he learned about the world. He learned, he started to learn how to see the world through the gospel. He didn't understand the sinfulness of sin, and he didn't understand the gracefulness of grace, and as a result, he was whiplashed. Secondly, he learned something about us, about himself. This is not really the main point, but I think it's important. An awful lot of times we are so super spiritual about people's problems. We figure if you're depressed, you just need to pray about it. Or you need to, you know, let me tell you what, you know, why the Lord, you know, why you're sinning and so forth. We have a physical nature and sometimes we're depressed because physiologically we need rest. We don't need a lecture. We don't need a quiet time. We need to walk. We need something because we have a physiological, we're not just, we're not disembodied spirits. We've got a physiological nature, and sometimes part of our depression is physiological. We've also got a relational nature. Let's draw this out. Sometimes we need friends. We're lonely, and we've got a creative nature. Sometimes we need beauty. We need a good book. We need a wonderful piece of music. You see, we're so quick, very often, to immediately say all your problems must be sin. All your problems must be that you need to pray. You need a quiet time. You know, God himself was careful about this and gave, in a sense, a multiple discipline. God as a counselor takes a multidisciplinary approach. At first, all he did was he sat there, in a sense, with Elijah. He just let him sleep. He let him, in a sense, has some what we call veg time. He just said, you really need a really nice day and a bed and breakfast and a walk by the sea. And that's what happened. But eventually, he does say, Elijah, you need time apart where you can study my word and you can hear what I have to say. See, in some ways, you know, we're too super spiritual and we're not spiritual enough. When's the last time you spent 40 days seeking God's word? You see? Now, lastly, we learn about God. and what is God saying when he brings the earthquake wind and fire by and clearly they're from God and yet Elijah realizes that's not how I get in that's not how I really find him well why would you have these dramatic events versus the still small voice? There's two possible ways of understanding, I think they're both valid. First of all, God is clearly saying Mount Carmel is not the way to go. He's trying to say, do you not see that the earthquake, wind, and fire, the dramatic events don't change people's lives, but my voice does, my word. You don't need miraculous, dramatic answers to prayer and these events. You need my word. So the first thing he's trying to say is, if you want to really know God, you're going to know God a whole lot better if you sit down with his word and read it until you hear his voice through it. I mean, that's how you find God. You don't find God by asking for all these kinds of acts. God can do the Mount Carmel thing. That's just not the way he usually does it. And besides that, look, it didn't touch anybody's hearts. It's the word of God. It's the voice of the spirit. It's the quiet breath that changes people. Remember when the rich man is in hell in that famous parable that Jesus tells of Lazarus and the rich man? He's in hell, and he calls up and he says to Father Abraham, Father Abraham, if Lazarus can come back from the dead and go and talk to my brothers who are still alive, then they won't come to hell. And Abraham says what? What does he say? Exactly what God says to Elijah. He says, if somebody came back from the dead, that's not going to change their hearts. Moses and the prophets. What's that mean? He says, don't you realize it's God speaking through the word of God that changes hearts, not Steven Spielberg type special effects, not George Lucas types, you know, Star Wars kind of special effects. That's not it. But that's not all. The most important thing is this. The earthquake and the fire are the tokens of God's judgment. The still small voice is the gentleness of his grace. And what Martin Luther said about this is very interesting to me. I probably need to qualify this, but I don't have time. Martin Luther says judgment, God shows us here that judgment is strange work. Judgment is not his primary work. Judgment is only a means to an end. Judgment is not the main way that God's going to go about things. And Edmund Clowney, who's a wonderful Bible scholar, points out that when Jesus Christ deals with John the Baptist in Matthew 11, and the reason I'm thinking about this is I spent two months almost on Matthew 11 in the morning services. Jesus talks to John the Baptist. John the Baptist says, How do we know you're the one who is to come? Jesus quotes Isaiah 35. He says, John, don't you know that the deaf are hearing and the blind are seeing and the poor have good news preached to them and the lame are being healed? And Jesus is quoting from Isaiah 35. And of course, this drives John the Baptist berserk because John the Baptist is Elijah. John the Baptist has the spirit of Elijah. Jesus continually says that. And he has the mindset of Elijah. And John the Baptist, just like Elijah, thinks that judgment is the main thing the world needs. And Jesus drives him crazy by quoting Isaiah 35, because this is what Isaiah says. Isaiah 35 says, strengthen the feeble hands and steady the knees. Your God will come. He will come with vengeance, with divine retribution. He will come to save you. Then will the eyes of the blind be opened. Then will the ears of the deaf be unstopped. Then will the lame leap like a deer and the mute tongues shout for joy. The prophecy is when God comes in judgment, then all these wonderful things will happen. The eyes of the blind will be opened. The ears of the deaf will be unstopped. John the Baptist looks at Jesus and says, I don't get it. Here you are doing these works of the kingdom, but where's the judgment? You've come in weakness. I'm in prison, and I'm your servant. You look like you're about to be killed yourself. Where's the fire of God? See, salvation is God bringing down the fire and destroying the wicked. That's John the Baptist, and that's Elijah. It says that's how God is going to save us. And Jesus is saying, what God said down back to Elijah implicitly. And that is, listen, if God sends the judgment, if God sends his fire of judgment down, he won't just consume Herod, John, he'll be consuming you too. If God would really come down in judgment, we'd all be lost. Well, John says, how in the world are these wonderful works happening? Where's the judgment? And Jesus says, you see, I came to receive the judgment. The judgment of God is falling. The fire of God is falling, but it's falling on me, and that's why the eyes of the blind are open, the ears of the deaf are unstopped. Why is it that the earthquake, wind, and fire did not destroy Elijah? Because, you see, the earthquake, Jesus was the one who was shaken. Jesus was the one who got the fire. Jesus was the one who inherited the wind. You know that place, that curse where it says, he who troubles his house will inherit the wind? Jesus inherited the wind. Jesus got all that. The reason that the still small voice is there for Elijah and for us was because the reason that grace was there is because Jesus took the judgment. Elijah didn't understand that. He thought judgment and spectacularness was the way to go. And what God was trying to say is, judgment's my strange work. My judgment is a means to an end. Judgment comes down on Jesus so I can give you grace. There we have. Through the gospel, you can understand the world. Otherwise, you'll be whiplash back and forth between pessimism and optimism. And also, the gospel will help you understand yourself. But most of all, the gospel helps you understand the Lord. He comes in grace. He comes through the word. He's in the still small voice. He is the one who comes in gentleness. He's the one who comes in weakness. He's the one who comes not to bring vengeance, but to take vengeance so that we can have his gracious voice. Let's pray. Thank you, Father, for showing us these things, and we pray that we might understand them well enough that it would really change the way in which we move out into the world help us to be people who breathe grace not judgment help us to be people who do not demonize our opponents help us to be people who are stable help us to be people who see your work everywhere keep us from the pride that would whiplash us back and forth between optimism and pessimism we pray lord that you would grant these things because we're looking at these stories we thank you that you sent us not a piece of principle

and so Lord help us to apply these things to our hearts by your Holy Spirit we pray in Jesus name amen
