This morning's scripture reading is from Proverbs, from various chapters and verses. It will save you also from the adulteresses, from the wayward wife with her seductive words, who has left the partner of her youth and ignored the covenant she made before God. My son, do not despise the Lord's discipline and do not resent his rebuke, because the Lord disciplines those he loves as a father the son he delights in. May your fountain be blessed and may you rejoice in the wife of your youth, a loving doe, a graceful deer. May her breasts satisfy you always. May you ever be captivated by her love. Why be captivated, my son, by an adulteress? Why embrace the bosom of another man's wife? From the fruit of his lips, a man is filled with good things, as surely as the work of his hands rewards him. The sluggard craves and gets nothing, but the desires of the diligent are fully satisfied. Misfortune pursues the sinner, but prosperity is the reward of the righteous. A good man leaves an inheritance for his children's children, but a sinner's wealth is stored up for the righteous. A wise servant will rule over a disgraceful son and will share the inheritance as one of the brothers. He who finds a wife finds what is good and receives favor from the Lord. If a man curses his father or mother, his lamp will be snuffed out in pitch darkness. Folly is bound up in the heart of a child, but the rod of discipline will drive it far from him. Listen to your father who gave you life, and do not despise your mother when she is old. Buy the truth and do not sell it. Get wisdom, discipline, and understanding. The father of a righteous man has great joy. He who has a wise son delights in him. May your father and mother be glad. May she who gave you birth rejoice. This is the word of the Lord. I'm going to look at Proverbs, actually, for the last time in the series. And we said every week that Proverbs is about living wisely in the world. And we all know that in this area, the area of family relationships, in the area of relationship of spouse to spouse, relationship of parents to children, relationships of children to parents, mistakes, wrong choices, bad patterns can be absolutely devastating. do is just take a look in the most general way of what the basic principles of family life that the book of Proverbs lays out are. And because of the nature of this, I mean, we represent all these different family statuses. Some of you are married, some of you aren't married. Some of you are married and have children at home. Some have no children, some children are gone. What this means is that there's going to be something for everybody here, But it's very easy to tune out your point. I mean, tune out the point's not you. You can say, okay, that's parents and children. I don't have any children. Listen carefully because the themes of wisdom that run through all the relationships are kind of universal. And there is something for everybody here. Let's take a look, first of all, what the Book of Proverbs says about relationships of spouses to spouses, spouse to spouse, and then relationships of parents and children. That's all. first, what does the Bible, what does the book of Proverbs, that is, in particular, say about the relationship of husband to wife, spouse to spouse? First of all, we're told here that the relationship of spouse to spouse is a covenantal relationship. It's a relationship based on covenant. Read the very first two verses at the top of the page. It talks about someone who has left the partner of her youth and ignored the covenant she made before God. God. Now, marriage is a covenant. This means it's a binding agreement. I've had over many years people kind of sniff at the legal aspects of marriage, and I've had people say in something like these words over and over to me, pastor, they'd say, why do I need a piece of paper? It's, I guess, a wedding license. Why do we need a piece of paper? Just to tell someone else I love them. You know, why do I need a piece of paper to declare my love for somebody? And of course, the right answer is, of course you don't. Go right ahead. But actually, a wedding is not the declaration of present love. It's a promise of future love. See, that's not what a wedding is. If you listen to any wedding ceremony, any, from any culture, any religion, any church, listen to the vows, and you'll see the vows say nothing about how you feel now, about behavior. There's nothing in the vows about how I feel now. The vows are always promises to be tender, to be considerate, to be faithful, to be loving in the future under any circumstances. That's what the vows are, because marriage is a covenant. It's not just a declaration of present love, it's a promise of future love. Now, when you hear, people hear that, people in the individualistic Western world hear that, suddenly they feel like the walls are closing in on them, and they say, to abuse and neglect. I mean, and the answer is, keep listening to the sermon. Next point. Not only does the book of Proverbs say marriage is based on a covenant, the marriage relationship is based on a ministry mindset, a mindset of ministry. There are two factors combined in marriage, according to the book of Proverbs, that are historically and practically notable. First of all, take a look down, oh, about a third of the way down. You probably noticed it on the way as it was being read, when it talks about in marriage that your spouse, it says, and this is chapter 519, may her breasts satisfy you always. May you ever be captivated, and that word captivated literally means drunk, drunk, intoxicated with her love. This says that your spouse should be your lover. Your spouse, your relationship should be characterized by love and romance, love and sexual love. It also says up in chapter 217, we already read this, the second verse in the top, she left the partner of her youth. This is talking about their spouse, and the word here is a Hebrew word, halup, which means your most intimate and best friend. So Proverbs says your relationship with your spouse should be characterized by a torrid romance and at the same time intimate. Your spouse should be your most intimate and your best friend. Now this is, as I said, first of all, historically incredibly notable. Why? As you know, in traditional societies, the purpose of marriage was to gain and status for your family. Both the husband and the wife were trying to marry as well as possible. You married the person who helped your family's status the most and who produced children. And you certainly didn't marry for love. You certainly didn't marry for romance. All historians, no matter who they are, admit that came in quite a bit later in history, the idea of marrying for love. You didn't do that. And here it says you must. You know, traditionally,

cultures. You married for status, you married for children, and you got your sexual joy somewhere else. Here it says, no, you marry for love. But then, not only is that odd to see this, this is kind of revolutionary in ancient cultures, but then it says, into a culture in which women had very low status, that your spouse has got to be your best friend. And that really breaks all the categories. That is ridiculous. Where did this come from? See, it resonates to you and me. You say, oh, isn't that nice? You realize how revolutionary this is. So historically, it's incredibly notable. But practically, I want you to think about the implications as well. That when you say, tarred romance and intimate friendship are combined, and that's not easy to combine, but that's what the book of Proverbs is saying it should be. If you combine those, it creates a kind of unique relational chemical compound that, well, I just said it, is unique. It's a relational chemical compound that's unique. Why do I mean that? Do you remember two weeks ago, if you were here, Memorial Day, a lot of you weren't, two weeks ago we talked about friendship, and I read this passage out of C.S. Lewis's famous essay on friendship, where he says, though you can have erotic love and friendship with the same person, yet in many ways there is nothing less like a friendship than a love affair. Lovers are normally face-to-face, absorbed in one another. Friends are side-by-side, absorbed in some common interest. That is why those pathetic people who simply want friends can never make any. honey. The very condition for having friends is that you want something else besides the friend. If someone asks you, do you see the same truth as me? And the honest answer is, I don't care about that. I just want you to be my friend. No friendship can arise. There would be nothing for the friendship to be about. Those who are going nowhere can have no fellow travelers. Now, that last statement is extremely interesting because it's a metaphor for friendship. Friends The essence of friendship is to have a vision for something and we both want to get there. We're fellow travelers. We have a passion for something and we want to get there. Lovers though are absolutely absorbed with one another. So what happens when you actually put, what happens when lovers become best friends? Where are you going? Where is the journey? What is the passion? And the answer is, according to the Bible, when you get married, understanding what the Bible says about marriage, You get married to somebody and you have a passion to go on a journey toward that person's future greatness, that person's future potential. In fact, I go so far as to say what the Bible says, that person's future glory. Think about the traditional society says get married for status. Modern society says get married for personal fulfillment. Naive both. The Bible says think of the gospel. Think of the gospel. We're all made in the image of God. We're made to be something great, but we're all broken by sin. We're just shadows of what we were made to be. Jesus Christ looks down at us, sees that we are just shadows of what we should be, comes into our world, lays himself out through sacrifice, comes into our lives through the Holy Spirit, applies what he has done, and goes on a journey with us to our future potential, the greatness that God made us for. Once you understand the gospel, it revolutionizes your understanding of marriage because what marriage then becomes is gospel reenactment. Of course, why do you marry somebody? There's got to be personal chemistry. Sure, there's personal chemistry, but for a Christian it's much more complicated than that because attraction becomes more complicated. For a Christian, you get attracted not just to what they are but what that person is going to be. A Christian looks at another person that you're thinking of marrying I see flashes of your future, and they excite me. I see what you're becoming, and you're not there yet, by the way, but I see what you're becoming, and I see what God is making of you, and I want to be part of that. And so what does marriage then become? Oh, think. Marriage becomes gospel reenactment. You see the person, what the person's going to be. You enter into that life and say, I want to sacrifice, I want to help, I want to serve, I want to minister to you, so we can get there. I want to be part of that. There's the journey. Now we're friends. We're committed to each other's future glory. And that means then how important it is. You don't have a consumer mindset. Of course you don't. A consumer mindset is this. I'll be the spouse I should be to the degree that you're being the spouse you should be. Since you're not being the spouse you should be, I don't have to be the spouse I should be. But that's not the mindset of someone who understands ministry, understands the purpose of marriage according to the Bible. Because then the language of your heart is to say, I'm going to be the spouse I ought to be. Even when you're not being the spouse you should be because my ultimate lover, my ultimate spouse, Jesus Christ, treated me like that. He loved me not because I was lovely, but in order to make me lovely. And we even have a wonderful verse in the New Testament that explains this perfectly. specifically. Ephesians 5.22, husbands love your wives as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her to make her holy, cleansing her by the washing with water through the word, to present her to himself in splendor without stain or wrinkle or any other blemish, but holy and blameless. Now, if somebody says, oh my goodness, you mean I have to be the spouse I should be even when the other person's not being a spouse he or she should be, that just means that they can walk all over me. It means marriage is one way. You're not listening. Do you remember said about friendship two weeks ago, Proverbs 27, 17, as iron sharpens iron, so a friend sharpens friend. You're not listening. What is ministry? You're out for the good of the person. The worst possible thing you can do for a selfish person is to let the person be selfish. The most unloving thing you can possibly do to a person is let them stay unloving. You'd have to confront, but you're going to have to be patient, real patient, because you're in ministry now. You're not in the marriage for fulfillment. You're in for ministry. Lewis Smead says at one point, he was writing this as an old man, he says, when I married my wife, I had a smidgen of sense of what I was getting into with her, but only a smidgen. How could I know how much she would change? My wife has lived with five different men since we were married, and each of them has been me. the connecting link with my old self has always been the memory of the name I took on the day of my wedding, the day I said, I am he who will be there with you through the journey,

and see, if you say, I don't like the person right now, so I don't like the way they're behaving, so I'm not going to be very loving to them, if you love the person when you don't like them, you will feel more and more loving. If you only love the person when you like them you'll feel less and less loving. The more you love the person in other words the more you minister to the person the more you seek the person's good when you don't like them the deeper your love eventually will be. That's why C.S. Lewis puts it like this being in love is a good thing he says but it's not the main thing. Love as distinct from being in love is not just a feeling it's a deep unity maintained by the will deliberately strengthened by habit reinforced in Christian marriages Christ. A husband and wife can have this love for each other even at those moments when they do not like each other. It's on this love that the engine of marriage is run. Being in love was just this explosion that ignited it. That's wisdom. Covenant, passionate lover friends,

gospel reenactment, commitment to the journey, ministry mindset, the relationship of spouse to Now, what does Proverbs then say about the relationship of parents to children and children to parents? Now, the only way to handle these big subjects is to tell you one thing, the main thing Proverbs says about how parents should relate to children and the main thing about how children should relate to parents. First of all, how parents relate to children. Traditional society says, I think, conservative society says the main goal of child rearing is control. control, liberal modern society says the main goal of child rearing is love and affirmation. But Proverbs is more nuanced than that and says basically the main goal, the main purpose of parenting is to make your children wise. Not just to control them and not just to affirm them, but to make them wise. Look, down at the very bottom. Listen to your father who gave you life and do not despise your mother when she is old. Buy the truth and do not sell it. Get wisdom, righteous man has great joy, and he who has a wise son has delight. Carnegie report, probably 15 years ago, called All Our Children, pits the traditional understanding of authoritative discipline versus the modern understanding of affirmation and support. It was a pretty controversial report. When it came out, it said that the old-fashioned of parenting was you taught, you told children what was right to do and you disciplined them. Now, according to the report, the job of the parent is simply to build up children's self-esteem by affirming them no matter what and let the experts, let the educators, let the psychologists shape them. That's what the report said. Stanley Hauerwas at Duke University went nuts over this report, I remember. He wrote some wonderful scathing critiques and he pointed something out. He says in the area of what is right and wrong, in the area of what is good and bad, in the area of what is wise and unwise, there is no such thing as an expert. Science can't help you a bit. For example, if you say to somebody, racism is wrong, that's not a scientific statement. Science can't talk to you about human rights. Science can't prove such a thing. You are into ethics. You are into religion. You are into faith. As soon as you say something like that. And what Stanley Harawas said, it comes right out of the book of Proverbs, the main job of a parent is to teach your children what is good and bad, what is right and wrong, what is wise and unwise. Here's the great irony. Every single one of us has jettisoned much of what our parents told us about what was right and wrong. You know that. But what makes you capable of coming up with your own critical, mature understanding of right and wrong, good and bad is not that your parents taught you exactly right but that your parents taught you. if you have parents that have a coherent account of what is good and bad and right and wrong and wise and unwise, and if they live it consistently, if they discipline you according to it, that is, there's consequences if you don't live as they say, and if you know underneath it all, they delight in you. See, look at the third and fourth verse. My son, do not despise the Lord's discipline,

If you have a firm father and mother, notice, by the way, fathers and mothers together discipline children. That's what it says at the bottom. If you have a father and mother who is firm, has a coherent understanding of right and wrong, and you know that no matter what, they delight in you, even if you grow up and you turn away and say, no, I have a whole different set of values that I want to go to. You've still been raised. still been reared. Your parents are not guilty of malpractice. But if parents basically either live inconsistently, they don't delight, they don't train, they don't discipline, they don't teach, they just basically let a kid lose, you know, as a kind of free autonomous self to have to make up completely his or her own mind about what is right or wrong, that's malpractice according to the book of Proverbs. Your job basically is to be one of instruction. Look at this very famous verse about a third from the bottom. Folly is bound up in the heart of a child, but the rod of discipline will drive it far from him. Now first of all, notice folly, foolishness, means that children are naturally unwise. Why? They're self-centered, so they're out of touch with reality. They don't understand how other people feel unless they're taught. They don't understand how people will read them unless they're taught. Their life will be a disaster unless you intervene and give them wisdom. What is the intervention? The rod of discipline. I better say something about this quick. The word discipline is a very common word in the book of Proverbs. It's a word musar, which literally means really to coach. It's a combination of instruction and discipline. It means coaching. The word rod means take authority. The word rod does not always mean corporal punishment. The word rod means authority. And one of the great dangers of reading the book of Proverbs without being a little nuanced about it time you see the word rod you think that means to spank now certainly in ancient times the word rod included corporal punishment but you're making a huge mistake if you if you every place you see in the book of proverbs the word rod you think it means corporal punishment here's why you know that very famous verse that says train up a child in the way he should go and when he's old he won't depart from it train up a child in the way he should go many commentators think what that really means is make sure that your training fits the nature of the child. Some children don't need corporal punishment. They just need a dirty look and they just melt down. Other children need a lot more than a dirty look. If you think corporal punishment is the universal, if you think corporal punishment is something that you use with every child or you use extensively, you're missing the point of the book of Proverbs. You're not into the biblical understanding of child rearing. You're you're much more into a traditional understanding of control, command and control. But see, the point is, your child needs to know you delight in them no matter what, that you have a coherent understanding of right and wrong, that you are instilling in them because you think it means so much. There's consequences. Delight, the consequences of teaching, the integrity of life. And you know what? When they grow up, they might think you were wrong, but they'll still know that you've prepared them for their lives. Now that's how parents are to relate to children. But what is the main way that children are to relate to parents? And in the book of Proverbs and in the whole Bible, there is one key word that comes up over and over again. Now it's here in the negative. If you look at the fourth verse from the bottom, where it says, do not despise. What does it mean to listen to your father? It means not to despise your father. What does it mean to listen to your mother? It means not to despise. honor. In the ten commandments, it says honor your father and your mother. Now notice that the ten commandments, and that's pretty important, in ten commandments, these are the main principles you need for living life, the main body of wisdom. It doesn't say love your father and mother. It doesn't say obey your father and mother. It doesn't say admire your father and mother. It doesn't say trust your father and mother. It doesn't say even have affection for your father and mother. It says I think what is in that commandment is significant, but what is not is just as significant. Why doesn't the Bible, in fact you're going to have trouble finding places in the Bible where it commands you to love your parents. You're going to have trouble finding it. Why does it say honor, always honor, always honor? It doesn't always say love or trust or affection or admiration or even obey. Here's the reason why. There's an enormous range of situations through which you relate to your parents. You relate as infants, you know, baptism of little babies, and eventually you're an adult. And in the process, in some of those stages, to obey your parents is absolutely crucial or it's a disaster. In other stages, if you're still depending on your parents and still obeying your parents, it's just as much a disaster. But not only is there a great range of situations and stages of your relationship to your parents, but also there's an enormous range of parents in quality, I mean. For example, I can say without fear of contradiction, one half of all parents are below average. Try to argue with that. And that means an awful lot of parents are poor parents. And some parents are evil. And that's why the Bible is very smart, consummate wisdom to say, there's one thing and only one thing, no matter what condition you're in and no matter what condition your parents are in, There's only one condition, but you must fulfill it. You must fulfill it for society. You must fulfill it for your own conscience. You must fulfill it for your children if you're going to have children. It's absolutely crucial you do this. No matter who your parents are, what they've done, what they haven't done, where you are, you have to honor them. Now, honor is a very, very unsentimental thing. The word in, by the way, in the Hebrew, in the ten commandments, it's gebodh, which is the word from which we get our word glory. glory. It means to treat your parents not lightly, but with honor. Let me explain why that's important, and I'm going to talk to adult children since most of you are. You must always honor your parents, no matter what they're like, no matter what they've done, no matter what stage in life. It's the one constant. It's the moral nucleus of your whole relationship with them, and you've got to do it. Here's five ways to honor your parents. Number one, in your culture, find the appropriate symbols by which you show them respect. Place at the table, remembering special days, letting them speak first in certain situations. Find the cultural symbols. Secondly, don't underestimate your parents' need to see themselves reproduced in you. In other words, any place you can say, I got that from you and it's good. I learned that from you and it's good. I picked up that trait from you and it's good. Anytime you have a possibility of saying that, say it. That honors them. Thirdly, don't stereotype them. Let them change. People can change. Just because they were always like that with you up until you're age 21 doesn't mean they can't change now. now. But thirdly, chapter 20, verse 20, if a man curses his father or mother, his lamp will be snuffed out in pitch darkness. You know what that means? One of the ways you have to honor your parents is you have to forgive them. You have to forgive your parents. What does that mean? If you stay resentful at your parents, your life will be distorted. You know, the one I often use, the example I use because I remember it so well, I just remember there was a guy who lived right

practically, Hopeville, Virginia. And we used to always be trying to get the family to come to church, you know, in the sort of pushy way that, you know, small southern towns do things like that. And what we used to do is we used to say, you know, we'll be happy to come by and pick up the kids and bring them to Sunday school or vacation, Bible school, whatever. And I remember one time the guy said to me, no, I don't want my children to go to church because my father forced me to go to church, morning, evening, all the time. He forces religion down my throat. And so I'm never going to let my children go to church. In other words, he's still being controlled by his father. His father has won. His father has beaten him. And one of the ways to honor your parents so they really grow you up is to forgive them. If you're still mad at them, you're still a child. If you're you're still mad at them, they haven't grown you up. They haven't raised you. So respect them. Let them know the good things that you got from them. Let them change. Forgive them. But most of all, the most important way to honor your parents is you actually have to be liberated enough from them. You have to be able to say, I don't need your approval anymore. Because if you had really good parents that you can spend the rest of your life trying them and never living up. And if you had really bad parents, you're going to spend the rest of your life resenting the fact that they didn't love you. And either way, you haven't left them. Either way, you haven't really grown up. And therefore, you haven't really honored them. And that's the reason why the Bible says, look, no matter what condition you're in, no matter what condition your parents are in, if you don't honor your parents, you are going to be distorted. You are going to be hurt. You are going to be bound. You're actually not going to become an adult. So there's what the book of Proverbs says about relationships between spouses, relationship between parents and children, relationship between children and parents. And let me conclude like this. Everybody got something right. I hit everybody, didn't I? Okay. And everybody's feeling like this is hard. This is really hard. This is not going to be easy to do. Not at all. And I think the only way to get help here at the end is to do what we've done every time we've looked at the book of Proverbs, and that is to look at the book of Proverbs in the context of the whole Bible, and especially in the context of the New Testament about Jesus. Let me show you how Jesus gives you help. We've already talked a little bit about it. First of all, somebody's saying, how can I stay on a journey with a very difficult spouse? How can I even stay on the journey? And the answer is, chapter 2, verse 17, who has left the partner of her youth and ignored the covenant that she made before God, please keep in mind that Jesus Christ made a covenant with the Father to come to earth and make us his partners. When he got here, we crucified him. Now, maybe you think your spouse is crucifying you, you. But Jesus' spouse really did crucify him. Jesus Christ got into the worst marriage, the marriage from hell, the marriage that sent him to hell. It was marriage with us. And if you see him dying on the cross for you, that's fine. You say, oh, I believe he died on the cross for you. Do you see him staying with us in a terrible marriage? Do you see him giving us the ultimate faithfulness, the ultimate spousal love, being faithful to us and being faithful to with us, does that move you? If it moves you and it changes your life and it makes you say, oh my goodness, the Lord of the universe loves me like that, that's your only hope. And here's why. If your spouse is the center of your life, you're going to be a lousy spouse. If your spouse is the most important thing to you, you're going to be a lousy spouse. Do you know why? When your spouse has got some terrible problem, you're going to be so freaked out and so afraid that you're not going to be strong for him or her. And when your spouse is not giving you what you want, you're going to be so freaked out because your spouse is the ultimate source of your worth and your meaning and your happiness. Unless Jesus Christ demotes your spouse, moves your spouse out of the center of your life, you're going to be a lousy spouse, be a lousy husband or wife. Jesus' ultimate spousal love has to so move you that you can handle life when your spouse isn't what he or she should be. And only if you let him be your ultimate spouse will you be any kind of decent spouse yourself. You have to constantly be looking at your spouse saying, you sinned against me, but I sinned against Jesus. And he loved me and covered me anyway. So I can love and cover you anyway. You're never going to be able to say that unless he, his spousal love, has changed your life and has actually pushed your spouse out of the center of your life and Jesus is there instead. Second question, how can I handle the journey of life if I want to be married and I'm not? And there's a lot of people that want to be married and they aren't. And they go to weddings and they say, I can't stand this. When's my wedding going to be? Will I ever have a wedding? Well, what I just said actually holds true to you. If it's true that you're going to be a lousy spouse, unless Jesus is the ultimate source of love and significance in your life, unless his faithfulness to you in a terrible marriage moves you to the depths, in other words, unless you're relatively happy as a single person because you know you've got the ultimate spouse in your life, and he's going to get you to the future glory self whether anybody else signs up to help you or not. Only if you're relatively happy as a single person will you ever be a decent spouse. When you're at a wedding and you're feeling like, when's mine going to happen? You need to say this to yourself. There's only one person in the universe that can give my soul what it longs for the most, and he awaits me. I can read about it in Revelation 21-22. My wedding day is coming no matter what. And the only wedding day that I really need. and on that day the first embrace from your ultimate lover could heal a thousand lives far worse and more unhappy than yours that awaits you heal yourself with that tell yourself about that if you don't it's your fault so Jesus is the way to handle the journey with the hard spouse, Jesus is the way to handle the journey without the spouse And one last thing, but it's fairly important. How can you look at your parents and either, whether they're alive or not, by the way, how can you look at your parents and be free enough to not resent them or to not actually work too hard to please them? And the answer is, of course, again, Jesus. We read up here, My son, do not despise the Lord's discipline. Do not resent his rebuke, because the Lord disciplines those he loves. As a father of the son, he delights in. Jesus Christ lost his Father's delight so that because he is our Savior, he lived the life we should have lived, died the death we should have died, we can have the ultimate Father's delight. And I have to be able to say to my parents, as good as they are, or as bad as they are, I say, you stood in the place of God for me at one time. You are my complete source of significance and security. You are a complete source of my understanding of right and wrong. But you're not God to me anymore. Through Jesus Christ, my true brother, I have come into the ultimate home and I have the ultimate approval of the ultimate Father and now I am free to honor you, free to forgive you, free to not over need you. And until then you're not going to be able to honor your parents until through Jesus Christ you have the ultimate love of the ultimate parent. Come home and then you'll always be home whether you're married or not, whether your spouse is tough or not, Whether your children have gone off the rails or not, you'll always be home. Let's pray. Our Father, we thank you that the true family of God is available to us through the work of our brother Jesus Christ, that you are no longer, because of his work for us, you are no longer a remote sovereign, but you are our heavenly Father. And we pray now, Lord, that you would help us to take what we have learned family relationships, so that we truly can enjoy your love and therefore enjoy and give love to those around us in our family relationships. And we pray that you'd help us to be wise in that regard through Jesus. In his name we pray. Amen.
