Our teaching is found in the book of Proverbs, and the passage is printed in your bulletin. We're going through the Ten Commandments, not the Seven Commandments. We're at the Seventh of the Ten Commandments, yes.

And today we're reading a passage which is something of an exposition of the Seventh Commandment, Thou shalt not commit adultery.

Proverbs 5, 15 to 23.

Drink water from your own cistern. This is a father speaking to his son. Running water from your own well. Should your springs overflow in the streets, your streams of water in the public squares, let them be yours alone, never to be shared with strangers. May your fountain be blessed, and may you rejoice in the wife of your youth. A loving doe, a graceful deer, may her breasts satisfy you always. boys, may you ever be captivated by her love. Why be captivated, my son, by an adulteress? Why embrace the bosom of another man's wife? For a man's ways are in full view of the Lord, and he examines all his paths. The evil deeds of a wicked man ensnare him. The cords of his sin hold him fast. He will die for lack of discipline, led astray by his own great folly. And this is

I used to teach preaching, you know, and one of the things I learned in reading all the stuff on oral communication, rhetoric, oratory, was that the purpose of an introduction is to convince the hearers that you have something they need, to get them interested, to catch their attention. I don't need an introduction today. Sex. Now my introduction's over. over sexuality, that from which no New Yorker can escape, because it screams at you from the streets. It screams at you from the papers, from the subway walls, tenement halls. balls. You can't escape it. The Bible, however, gives us a view, gives us a, calls us and summons us to a view, to a use, and to an experience of human sexuality that I think is just unique. There's a wisdom to it. There's a wonderful, sweet reason to it that to take it into your life brings, I think, tremendous fruit and deep healing. And oh, I yearn for the day that our church, for example, could be a clear glass through which the world could read the wisdom of the Bible, the wisdom of God when it comes to sexuality. The Bible, by the way, does not say nearly as much about sex. Jesus doesn't say nearly as much about sex as he does about money, power, power, greed, ambition, hatred, all that kind of stuff. Modern world tends to think of Christians as being obsessed with sex. The Bible isn't. However, we're going to see it's, you know, you say whatever you're asked. I personally think in some ways our modern world is obsessed with sex, and addicts tend to project their obsessions on other people. You know, if you say to an alcoholic, you drink too much, just twice, will he say? He'll say, you're always bringing it up. And so, and there's a sense in which many people feel that Christians are obsessed with sex, partly because the world is so obsessed. And whenever they ask the Christians what is the view, out comes what the Bible says. In many cases, people don't like it. But I just urge you to think with me this morning about it, and you'll see that there's a sweet reason and a wise balance and a loftiness to the biblical view of sex that I fulfilled. This particular text shows us three things the Bible says about sex. Three things. It tells us about the glory of it, the purpose of it, and the terrible power of it. The glory of it, the purpose of it, and the terrible power of it. First, the glory of it. You've got to start with a positive. Yes, the Ten Commandments, many of them are cast in the negative, thou shalt not. But the teachers for years have told us that if you trace out each of the Ten Commandments throughout the Bible, throughout the biblical ethic, you will always discover that there's always a positive summoned or a positive enjoined or a positive invited as well as a negative prohibited. So, when it says, thou shalt not kill, we've learned, I think, that the Bible, what it is saying, it's also saying, thou shalt be loving. Thou shalt be kind. When it says thou shalt not steal, it's saying thou shalt be generous. When it says thou shalt not commit adultery, the negative actually flows from the positive. The Bible says thou shalt have great sex. That's the seventh commandment. And you know, if you start with the negative, you will never understand the negative because the negative things the Bible says about sexual sins are completely incomprehensible unless you understand what a tremendously positive, glorious view the Bible has of sex. Now, that's not our press, I admit. Christianity has bad press. It's seen as being a religion very negative. For example, D. H. Lawrence put it this way. He says, the human body is only just coming to real life. With the Greeks, it gave a lovely flicker. Then Plato killed it, and off. But now the body is coming really to life. Now, what does D.H. Lawrence do there? What he does is he identifies Christian view of sex with Plato and with the later Greek view of sex. And Plato's view, that particular view that D.H. Lawrence says killed the body, then Christianity finished it off, said that the body is bad. bad. The spirit is good. Therefore, sex, because it's so bodily, is tainted. It tends to drag you down toward your animal nature. And if you want to be good, if you want to be a noble person, you really shouldn't have much to do with it. Now, to be honest and to be fair, I've got to believe in truth and broadcasting here. To be fair to a guy like D.H. Lawrence, there are definitely, definitely there have been heavy hitters in the history of the church, especially in the history of the early church. People like Tertullian, even the great St. Augustine, who pulled some of what Plato said about sex into their theology. So we have to be fair. Well, I'm not here to tell you about Augustine. I'm not here to tell you about Tertullian. I'm not here to tell you about church history. I'm trying, I'd like to start off by saying that Lawrence and people like Lawrence are absolutely wrong in their understanding of what the Bible, what the biblical view of sex is. Bible does not finish sex off. Surely some of you noticed that when we were reading the text this morning. The Bible has a tremendously positive, and as I'm going to show you for a minute or two, a cosmic glorious view of sex. Take a look at this particular passage, for example, right here in Proverbs chapter 5. Now, this is a father giving wisdom to his son. And we see in this passage three things that right away give the lie to the idea that Christianity teaches, or at least teaches a negative view of sex. Number one, the first thing we see in here is that sex is not just permitted in marriage, it's commanded. It's not just permitted, it's commanded. The New International Version, the New International Translation, which is what we always put in there, because it's very readable, it mutes a little bit the force of this. If you see verse 19, you'll see it says, may her, may her, may you. A little better translation would be, let her, let her be thou. That's the old authorized version, which gets across the fact that there's a command here. You must be ravished with your wife's breasts. Now listen, if sex is tainted, the bible tells us that God is light and in him is there no darkness at all God would never command something that was in any way tainted God doesn't just say in marriage it's permitted it says in marriage sexual delight is directed it's designed it's commanded why would God command something that's wrong let it let her let you see be thou ravished with your wife's breast, let be thou captivated by her love. This is frankly erotic language and God is commanding it. Yeah. And you know, there's an interesting commentary, a great commentary on the book of Proverbs by a man named Derek Kidner. And Derek Kidner in this text makes this comment. He says, this text teaches us what history and common sense also, so, that when marriage is chiefly a business arrangement, not only is God's generous gift of sex misunderstood, but human passion, see verse 20, will seek other outlets. This is not a negative view of sex. By the way, whenever anybody tries to get immersed in what the Bible says about the body and about the physical and about sexuality, it strips you of your prudish, and strips you of your squeamish views of sex. Most historians now, most American historians now, know that the idea of the so-called puritanical view of sex is actually a myth. You know, the word Puritan got associated with sex, and in most people's minds, the Puritans were squeamish and prudish about sex. This just isn't the case. The word Puritan comes from a word that means that the Puritans was a movement trying to make the church more biblical, trying to purify it. And so they were saturated in the Bible. And as they got saturated in the Bible, they came to see that there was nothing dirty about sex. And the Puritans' preaching and writing and sermons are so explicit that back in the 1950s, a man named Edmund Morgan, who was a Puritan expert, was taught in the American History Department at Yale University, tried to print some of them in the Yale Review, view and they wouldn't print them in the 50s. Why? Because the sermons of the Puritans were too racy for the 1950s liberal establishment. When a woman, a married woman, discovered that her husband wouldn't have sex with her, the Puritans knew that's against the scripture. The Puritans go to 1 Corinthians 7, go to Proverbs 5. She would tell the elders, and it wasn't unusual for the elders of the church to put the husband in the stocks in the public square. Because why? My son, be ravished with your wife's breasts. My son, be thou captivated by her love. As soon as you start to let the sexual delight in the marriage go, you're falling out of God's designs. You set up all kinds of problems in your marriage because God designed for sexual delight to be part and parcel of what marriage is all about. Now, is that negative? Is that a negative view of sex? Kind of low? Plato killed it. Christianity finished it off. Are you reading your Bible? Not only that, look. First of all, we see that sex is commanded, not just permitted. Then secondly, that sex is a joy and a delight. The word captivated means intoxicated. Be thou intoxicated with her love. Ravished, when it says, be satisfied with your wife's breasts, it means exactly what it looks like it means. It's a word that has to do with sexual satisfaction, sexual fulfillment. Now, by the way, this is a very nice little test for us all here. Sit and think about this. As you read this, are you surprised at the frankly erotic language? Are you really surprised that the Bible would have this kind of thing in it at all? That shows that you don't understand biblical Christianity, that you're laboring under a lot of stereotypes about it, and that you really don't know, you have a lot to learn. I'm not trying to say that in a condescending way, you just, you have a lot to learn. On the other hand, if you're a bit offended by it, if my language, if this discussion, if these words that I'm reading from the text, if you find them kind of off-putting, kind of offensive, they make you kind of uncomfortable, you are more under the influence of what Lawrence says, the view of Plato, the Greek notion of the body, than the biblical. You may, oh, maybe you're a Christian. Maybe you've been a Christian as long as you can remember. Maybe you're immersed in the word of God, you think, and yet if you're uncomfortable, if you are more pure than God somehow, something's wrong. You don't have a biblical control on your heart, but you're being controlled by something else. But most of all, this passage tells us that sex is actually a blessing. You know, in verse, up here in verse 18, well, I'll get to it in a second, 15, 16, 17, the father is saying, drink from your own fountain, your own cistern. Don't let your running water go out into the streets. And we'll get to that in a minute, what he's talking about. But then he says, if you do all this, if you follow my advice, let your fountain, may your fountain be blessed, and may you rejoice in the wife of your youth. The fountain, by the way, is your sexual capacity, your sexual desires, your sexual joy. And there is a blessing invoked. You have to remember that the word blessing in the Bible is a far more serious thing than the way we use it. We either don't use the word blessing at all, or it just means very happy. But, you know, if you go to the book of Numbers, chapter 6, we're told that when God's face is turned to you, you experience blessing. The word blessing means a deep satisfaction, not just a sexual one, but a spiritual deep fulfillment. And the Old Testament here is talking about something thing that the New Testament makes explicit, and here's what it is. Sex is an appetizer. Sex is a teaser. Sex is a sign pointing to something very profound. Look at Romans 7, sometimes, verses 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6, and you'll see Paul making a tremendous, a weird analogy. He says, just as a woman puts herself in her husband's arms, and fruit is born into the world through her body from that union. So he says, a Christian, you put yourself in Jesus' arms and good things come out into the world through you.

What is that saying about sex? Oh, maybe you say, well, that's, that's very stunning. That's very daring, but maybe it's not exactly what it appears to be, but that's not true. If you go to Ephesians 5, if you go through all through the Old Testament, the believer is seen as the bride, and God or Jesus Christ, depending on the Old and New Testament, is seen as the bridegroom. And in Romans 7, we see that Paul goes so far as to say that sex is like union with Christ. Let me put it to you this way. Let me just try to pull it out for a couple minutes, and it's because of the startling thing. Great sex, the Bible tells us, is a parable of the gospel. How can that be? What does this mean? This is what it means. Sex is, the ecstasy and joy of sex, is supposed to be a foretaste of the complete ecstasy and joy of total union with Christ. Let me put it to you this way. The Bible tells us that there is nothing like the beatific vision, that in the future, those of us who have received Christ as Lord and Savior will see him face to face. And the moment we see him face to face, we'll come an experience that's mighty hard to get into. Angels long to look into it. You know, the superlatives just start to get piled on themselves in the Bible, more than we dare ask or think, but we know this much about it. There will be a closure, and yet a complete openness. There will be a feeling of absolute safety and yet total vulnerability. What is that? Before God, through Jesus Christ, for the first time in our lives, we'll have an experience that we've wanted all our lives. We will be naked and yet so delighted in, that we'll be unashamed. What do I mean by naked? We'll be seen.

You see, the foundations of our lives will be laid bare. And we will be seen by someone who we utterly respect. We'll be naked and yet so completely delighted in that we'll be unashamed. Naked and unashamed. The Lord God will look at us through Jesus and say, I love you. And we will, he said, well, I already know that. Not like that day. You don't know it. You don't know what it's like to really be naked before him. And you do not know what it's like to be that loved. There will be a closure and yet an openness. There will be a vulnerability and yet an utter safety. There will be a delight and a towering joy because you will be absolutely known and yet know the one who loves you. don't you see what we're getting at great sex is a parable of the gospel to be utterly accepted in spite of your sin to be utterly loved by the one who's who you admire to the sky sex is a foretaste of that sex is cosmic fun is that experience going to be great to have Jesus look at us like that, to enter into that kind of union with him? Of course it's going to be great. Will it be fun? Of course it's going to be fun, and therefore its earthly analogy is fun. But we never, now we're about to move on here in this sermon, but as glorious as it is, we must never therefore ever use sex without regard for its heavenly analogy. Sex is unbelievable in the Christian understanding. It is not just a way of procreation. It is not just a bunch of animal urges. It's certainly not, you know, the old view which says sex was somehow tainted and dirty, kind of a necessary evil. It's neither that nor is it just an appetite. It's something far beyond that. I don't know. I have been looking. Honest, I've been looking. I've never seen. I can't find a philosophy. I can't find a religion. I can't find a view that comes close to this.

you will be blessed. If you understand sex, you'll be blessed. Sex is the teaser. Sex is the signpost. See, sex is the thing that gets at it. C.S. Lewis puts it this way. In the imagery describing Christ in the church, we are dealing with male and female, not merely as facts of nature, but as living and awesome shadows of realities utterly beyond our control and largely beyond our knowledge. The Lord looks at you and delights in you. In Christ, you're accepted. That is the reality of which great sex is a shadow. So what do we see first of all? The glory of sex. How positive it is. How tremendous it is. Why God gave it to us, you see. It's just, It's commanded. It's a joy. It's a freedom. It's a signpost to the stars. Now, having said that, secondly, we see the purpose of sex. And if you don't understand the positive, you're not going to understand the negative. What's the purpose of sex? Well, let's take a look and see what this father is saying to his son. He makes all these comments, which I mentioned I was going to say something about, and he talks about a cistern. Drink water from your own cistern. Running water well. Should your springs overflow in the streets, your streams of water in the public squares, let them be yours alone, never to be shared with strangers. Now, some people, it's very clear that he's making a metaphor here. And some commentators say, he's talking about his wife. And he's simply saying, keep your wife under control. And that's what some commentators say. He's saying, don't let her run around the streets and make love with other men. You keep her to yourself. But the smarter commentators and the ones who study the Hebrew a little more carefully is saying, well, that's part of it, of course. But what it's really talking about, the water is not your wife. The water is your sexuality. The water is your sexual passion and desire. And you see, his father is saying, not only your wife's sexuality shouldn't be running around in the streets, neither must yours. And therefore, what he's saying is something that the Bible says throughout, and that is that sex only works between one man and one woman in an exclusive and permanent and complete covenantal relationship called marriage. That's something the Bible says throughout. It works between one man and one woman in a completely permanent exclusive covenant called marriage. Or put it another way, God invented sex as a way for one person to say to another person, I belong completely and exclusively to you. Now, you can't say that unless you're married or the person you're speaking to. I belong completely and exclusively and permanently to you. it this way. In 1 Corinthians 6, he says, you mustn't, as a Christian, have sex with a prostitute. Don't you know, he says, that if you're one with her sexually, you're one with her. And you won't understand the logic unless you realize the purpose of sex. The purpose of sex is since sex is an analogy of that ultimate unitive act by which the human soul cleaves to God in complete fidelity and in complete faith. And as a result, the nature and love of God penetrates us. See, that's the ultimate unit of act. Entering into covenant with God. We cleave to him in complete fidelity and complete faith. Him and him alone. No other gods. And as a result of uniting with him by faith, into us comes his life and his love and his grace and his power. If that's the analogy, and that's a glorious one, now you begin to see why the negatives. You don't understand the negatives if you start with the negatives. You only understand the negatives of the Christian sex ethic if you look at the positives.

Sex, therefore, on earth, would have to be a way to say to one other person exactly what faith means when we say something to God. God. In sex, I say to some other person, I belong completely and exclusively to you, to you and you alone, no one else. So the physical union becomes, and this is just common sense, a visual aid for a complete union. I am legally one. I'm emotionally one. I am socially one. Do you see? And only when you make a covenant of marriage can you do that. That's the reason why monstrous it is to be physically one with somebody and not in every other way one. Let me put it to you a couple ways. To be physically naked, but not naked in any other way. Physically vulnerable, but not vulnerable in any other way. What do you mean? You say, this is what we mean. This is what Paul means. If you say, I want to have sex with you, but I don't want to marry you, what you're saying is, I want to be physically vulnerable to you tonight, but I don't want to be completely vulnerable to you permanently. I don't want to be socially vulnerable to you know, if we get married, you know, we might have a fight, and you might not want this or that, and I might want this or that, and then it gets into the money thing. Oh, how much we hate that. Right. Why is marriage such a mess? Because you become socially and economically in every way vulnerable to the person you're married to. And Paul says, don't you see the monstrosity? Common sense should tell it to you, even if the Bible doesn't. That to be physically one, and physically naked, and physically vulnerable, but not one and naked and vulnerable in every other way is a monstrosity. And think of the heavenly analogy. Can you imagine God saying, look, I don't care who you worship or how you operate. I'll be happy to just pour my love and grace into you when you want. Of course not. You can't have intimacy with God without commitment, total commitment. You can't have his love and grace pouring into your life unless you make an absolute covenant with him to say, you are my only God. You are my exclusive. I am permanently related to you. I will be faithful to you whether or not I feel like it. I mean, that's the way it is. So the earthly analogy of sex has to operate in the same way. It must. Do you see that? Only because, you see, some people say, oh my, Christians say no sex outside of marriage. That's based on a negative view of sex. Not at all. It's based on the most cosmic and glorious view of sex possible. Don't you see? Now, somebody, let me just deal with, before we go to the final point, let me just deal with an objection. People say, well, you know, I hadn't thought of it like this. You sure make it sound cool. But when it comes right down to it,

this is unnatural and repressive to say you can only have sex with somebody you're married to. It's unnatural and repressive. No, no, I don't think so. A lot of the reason you believe that, I think, comes from something that Freud did to us. And I know Freud's an easy boogeyman to get after, and he's dead now, but I really do think he was wrong here. Freud says, look, Freud says, there was the id, my innate drives, and then there's the superego, my conscience. And the way sex drives come from the inside, but your conscience comes from training. It comes from culture. It comes from your parents. He said, your sexual desires come from the inside, but your conscience comes from the outside. How does he know that? He doesn't know that. The Bible, I think, reveals that Freud was too simplistic about this. The fact of the matter is, you have a conscience that's part of your insides as well as sexual desires. And so to say no sex outside of marriage does not mean thou shalt repress thy natural feelings. No. Listen. It's a little bit saying you should not commit adultery is a lot like saying don't eat fatty foods. It's a lot like it. Look, I've got a desire for fatty foods. It's very powerful. And it comes from the inside. It's a natural feeling. My parents didn't teach me this. But on the other hand, I also have a nature, I have a constitution that will be violated if I eat as many fatty foods as my nature wants. You see, in other words, I both have a natural reason to give in and a natural reason to hold back. And the Bible tells us that on the one hand, we have sexual desire that would, you know, we're sexual beings and we have a lot of desire for sex, but we also, created into us, have a desire for complete commitment.

And therefore, it's no more repressive to say, thou shalt not commit adultery than it is to say, curb your desire for fatty foods or it'll destroy you because you're not built to do what all your desires say. If you just take and eat everything you want to you'll destroy your nature and if you have sex everywhere you want to you'll destroy your nature too because you were built to have sex in an environment of total safety and complete commitment. Hey.

All I can do is appeal this to you. your own feelings will reveal to you the truth of what the Bible says, that the purpose of sex is to be a unitive act, a complete covenant making. Those of you, since most people do it this way, those of you who start having sex and it wasn't in a context of marriage, don't you remember how strange it felt that the person you'd just given yourself to was now available to other people. Maybe you chalked it up to jealousy. That's the way God made you. Sex is a way of committing yourself to somebody else. Sex is God's way of softening you, of getting you to trust the person, of getting you to open to the person. For you to open to someone who has not made a promise to you of exclusive faithfulness and commitment feels terrible. It is terrible. Sex is a commitment apparatus, a way of opening yourself to somebody, and if you use it outside of marriage, you've actually got to fight against the very thing that it was built to do. You've got to harden yourself against its softening influence. And to use sex outside of marriage, therefore, actually trains you to not trust, when actually it's the whole point of marriage, of sex, is to get you to completely trust. Sex is designed to celebrate a union that's there and to revitalize the union continually softening you toward that person and getting you to trust more and more deeply and more and more deeply and more and more deeply. If you don't use it in a place where you can trust that person, it works against you. It just turns into nausea. One of the worst stories in the whole Bible is in 2 Samuel 13, where Ammon, the son of David, falls in love with his half-sister, a valid person to marry, but he gets sexually attracted to his half-sister. And he goes after her, and he seduces her, and he gets her into bed. And then what happens is, as soon as he's done, he was sick with love before he has her, and as soon as he's done with her, it says, and now Ammon hated her with a hatred greater than the love wherewith he had loved her. and he said to her, arise, be gone. When you use sex to take and to get, when it's real business is to get you to open and to give, it works against itself, destroys you. Now lastly, we looked at the glory of sex and we looked at the purpose of sex, but let me just say something very, very brief about the power of sex.

right here at the very end of the passage, there's some, the Hebrew is very revealing. It says, verse 21, for a man's ways are in full view of the Lord and he examines all his paths. Now the word for path means wagon marks, and it has to do with the ruts, those deep ruts that a wagon makes in a path. As long as the wagon is going over and over and over a certain path, After a while, the wagon has to always go along into those ruts. The wagon has made ruts, and now the wagon has to move along in those ruts. And the passage here tells us that sex creates trenches in your heart. Sex is tremendously powerful because it was built to be a glue, a kind of covenant cement. meant. And once you begin to use sex in a certain way, it creates trenches in your heart and the waters of your emotions will be forced to flow down them. Sex is addictive. Sex is addicting. If it's not used properly, this passage tells us either it will be a freedom or a bondage, but nothing in the middle. It'll be a bondage. It'll create trenches in your heart. You'll be ensnared. Look at the last verse. See, the evil deeds of a wicked man ensnare him. The cords of his sin hold him fast. He will die for lack of discipline. Is there any hope? There's people out there right now that are thinking about, or you're getting involved in something, and you say, well, I know it's probably wrong, but only once, or only twice, or only three times. Don't kid yourself. It's building trenches. It will ensnare you unless you use it according to the way in which the Word lays out and says, if you use it right, it's a glory, it's a freedom, it's an incredible joy. If you use it in any other way, it just snares you. Well, is there any hope? Here's where you have to look beyond the Old Testament to the New Testament. Let me just say something twice.

When the father says, why be captivated by an adulteress? You see that? It says, my son, my son, don't let this happen to you. Why be captivated, my son, by an adulteress? Why embrace

That question gives us lots of hope because he wouldn't say why unless it wasn't necessary. You don't have to be captivated. You don't have to be. Remember, he says that in verse 21, God's face, the Lord is looking at everything. I'll put it to you this way. Titus chapter 2 says, says, the grace of God has appeared to all, and it teaches us to say no to all ungodliness and unrighteousness. Let me put it to you this way. Titus chapter 2 says, the grace of God, the knowledge that you're accepted, the knowledge that through Jesus Christ, because he died for you, not because of your good works, not because of your efforts or performance, but because of his performance, and his work, if you receive him, God loves you and accepts you utterly. It's all by grace. Now, Titus 2 says the grace of God teaches us to say no. There are many of you, I'm sure I know this, that are stuck in a particular sexual problem and you can't get out. The wagon tracks, the trenches, and you can't get out. And the question comes, why be captivated? And you say, I'm trying. I can't. I can't stop it. I just can't. Yeah, willpower won't do it. Mechanical solutions won't do it. But what Titus 2 says is you've got to bring the grace of God into your life, and it will argue with you. It will teach you. The grace of God teaches us to say no to all ungodliness and unrighteousness. What's that mean? You have to learn how to let the grace of God come in and sweetly argue with you. In other words, how do you deal with temptation? Do you say, God will get me? Do you say, I'll hate myself in the morning? Do you say, people will find out? Do you say, it'll be bad for other people? It's against my principles? Do you say, it'll hurt my self-esteem? All those things may be true, but if you say those things, you'll never get out of your trench.

Never. What you've got to say is, before the Lord God, I am naked and yet so delighted in ashamed. Until you know the love of Christ in the gospel, until before God you know that you're naked and yet without shame, then to be naked before anybody else will either become a disgusting thing to you or a consuming thing to you. That last sentence, I'm going to have to repeat it one more time because that's what I want to leave you with. Unless you have learned how to be naked and unashamed before God. Unless you come to know the grace of God, unless you come to know what it means to be accepted like that, you're either going to be a prude or a pagan when it comes to sex. You're either going to be disgusted by the idea of being naked before somebody because you never felt acceptable before God. Or else you're going to be consumed by the idea of being naked before somebody because you've never understood the grace of God. Don't you see? until you're naked and unashamed before him. You'll find being naked to a human being either disgusting or consuming. Oh, let your fountain be blessed. Don't let it run in the streets. Go before the Lord and say, here I am, and hear him say, this is my beloved child in whom I'm well pleased, and you'll be healed. Let's pray. Our Father, this subject is a profound one. So many of us have suffered such trauma and pain with regard to the topic. We didn't need much of an introduction to get interested. Many of us are dealing with this every day. I pray that you would make it possible for us all to know how the grace of God can teach us to say no to all ways of using sex that hide its glory from us. Make us sexual beings who honor with our sexuality the heavenly union between you and the believer, between you and the human soul. Teach us how to do that. how to know that, teach us how to experience that. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
