Last week my wife said, somebody behind her said, when is he ever going to talk about work? Every week. Every week it says something about work and we haven't gotten there yet. And the answer is, today is the day. Let's take a look at the passage we've been reading, we've been studying, and we still have a couple more weeks left on it. Ephesians 4, and we're looking at verses 25 to 32 in great detail, maybe unnecessary detail, and we're looking at this. And we're particularly focusing on chapter 20, verse 29 tonight. But let's read the whole thing. It's a marvelous, an unsurpassed picture of the lifestyle of the Christian. Christianity is everything. You know, Christianity isn't a philosophy. And yet, of course, Christianity completely transforms your philosophical thinking and understanding. Christianity is not a psychology, and yet it has a completely profound transforming impact on your understanding of yourself, and not just your understanding of yourself, but it rearranges yourself. Christianity is not just an ethical system, and yet it results in a radically transformed lifestyle that doesn't fit into any particular ideology or category. And so, in a sense, Christianity isn't any of these things, has these things. It isn't just a lifestyle, but it has a distinctive lifestyle. It isn't just a philosophy, but it has a tremendous philosophy. And what we're going to do here is look at the lifestyle. Let me just read from verse 25 to 32. Therefore, each of you must put off falsehood and speak truthfully to his neighbor, for we are all members of one body. In your anger, do not sin. Do not let the sun go down while you are still angry, and do not give the devil a foothold. who has been stealing must steal no longer, but must work, doing something useful with his own hands, that he may have something to share with those in need. Do not let any unwholesome talk come out of your mouths, but only that which is helpful for building others up, that it may benefit those who listen. And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God with whom you were sealed for the day of redemption. Get rid of all bitterness, rage, and anger, brawling and slander, along with every reform of malice. Be kind and compassionate to one another, forgiving each other, just as in Christ God forgave you. But, even though I made a mistake, let's look not at verse 29, but verse 28. He who has been stealing must steal no longer, but must work, doing something useful with his own hands, that he may have something to share with those in need. Now, this is a very profound found verse and there's an awful lot packed into it. Let's just look at these things. First principle we see in this verse, he who has been stealing must steal no longer, but must work doing something useful with his hands that he may have something to share with those in need. Much in here. First of all, there is a marvelous definition of work. Recently, this is a lot about work and money. Recently I have noticed that there's a tremendous amount in the Bible about work and money, because those two things go together. You can't talk about work without money. Sex and money are such powerful shapers of our desires and powerful shapers of our behavior. In fact, you can make a case that the two things are almost continually linked together. Sex and money. If you think the Bible is too spiritual to talk about sex and money, you've got another thing coming. First of all, there's a tremendous amount in the Bible about sex. If you go back and read the book of Proverbs, there's a lot, a lot of information there. You have an entire book, Song of Solomon, dedicated to the glories and the profundity of sexual love. The Scripture is not too holy to talk about sex, and Scripture talks constantly about money. Somebody might notice if you read through the book of Luke kind of quickly that the book of Luke is all about money. And there's many other places like that. Right here we have a real profound statement about how work and money relate to each other. I'm going to be, we're going to take some time right now to talk about what it teaches us about work. But you also have to keep in mind that there's a section coming up in chapter six when we get to it, even more detailed about how a believer is to approach and carry out work in his vocation, her vocation. And we're going to get to that later on. So I don't have to say everything necessary. I'd just like to say something right now about what this teaches. This teaches us about the purpose of work. What is work for? What's the purpose of work? And there's two purposes, To do something useful and to create wealth with which you can help people. There's two purposes for work. One is to do something useful. See that? Let the thief no longer steal, but he must work. Define work. Doing something useful with his own hands that he may have something to share with those in need. So there's two purposes to it. Now let's just talk about this for a second. If you overlook that, that little phrase, except, no, pardon me, not except, but doing something useful. If you overlook that phrase, if you leave it out, it says, let the thief no longer steal, let him work. So he has something to share with people in need. That might give rise to something that really does happen very often in the Christian church, and that is a negative understanding of work. You know, in the Bible, we see back in Genesis that work was cursed. That when man and woman decided to be their own master, a curse fell on every aspect of reality. Understanding the curse is critical for living in the world. Again, I'm going to keep mentioning this, but we can't keep getting back into it. Sex and money are very related. You take a look at the curse. when Adam and Eve decided to go their own way, God comes to them and says, fine, you're going to go your own way. I want to show you that since you're refusing to take your rightful place in the universe, the universe will no longer work properly around you. One of the things that happens is sex doesn't work well. Before, there was this wonderful relationship between man and woman, and now God says, under the influence of the brokenness of sin and rebellion, he says now the woman will not only have pain and childbearing, but the husband will rule over her, and the wife's desire will be for her husband, So God says under the influence of sin and brokenness, sexuality will become a place for violence and oppression and manipulation. We can't get into that now, but we go on into another subject. Right away you say, oh, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute. All things in good time. We'll get back to that. But you see, the Bible also says that work is a curse. Work is cursed, excuse me. Not only is sexuality cursed, so it doesn't work properly anymore, but work is cursed. And we're told by God, who says this to Adam, now you will toil in the sweat of your brow, and thorns will come up instead of thistles. Work is cursed. You maybe heard me say that there was, I think it's Emma Bombeck that once said, you know, what is, what is, you know, she said, what is a woman's greatest,

what is a woman's greatest enemy in life? It's dirt. You spend all your life working on dirt. you see, cleaning from dirt and washing from dirt and doing dishes from dirt. She's talking about a housewife, of course. She says, in the end, what do you get for all your troubles? You get six feet of dirt. Now, you know, that is exactly what Genesis says. Only he's not saying it's just the women. What God is saying in Genesis is that what's going to happen is your work will be overwhelmed with dust. From dust you came, back to dust you will go, which means you will always find, no matter how hard you work, that things tend to keep falling apart. And in the end, you will fall apart. And you will go back to dust. This is all part of the curse. But here's the key. Even though work is cursed, work is not a curse. And a lot of us get into the thinking that because work is cursed, therefore work is a curse. And if I could really just have enough money instead of work, I could really swing. And some of you, this is New York, some of you know what that's like. Some of you know what it's like to not have to work in order to make ends meet. And I think you know, do you not, that doesn't work.

Because you're built for something. Even though work is cursed, and even though work is often cursed, work is not a curse. You're built to work. You're built to feel and to be useful. The definition of work, to this in a second, is to make yourself useful to somebody else. That's the biblical definition. And when you're not doing that, you find what? You find what? A lack of fulfillment. People have often discovered, and I mean now it's almost a, it's common wisdom now, it's street wisdom now, that retirement does not mean leaving work for leisure. Many people who have retired have found out that when they're able to, quote, afford to retire so they don't have to work anymore, they find a lack of meaning in life. And they realize now, any counselor will tell you, retirement is not the end of work, but it's changing to another kind of work. Because we were built for it. What is work? Work, though it's cursed, and there's all kinds of problems with it, it's not a curse. It's something you're built for. It gets in touch with something very deep in us. And the definition of work is to make yourself useful to somebody else. That's actually what Paul says here. And I want you to know, though, you know, we have to, we can only spend so much time reflecting on it. That's a tremendously profound economic principle. If the Bible defines work as making yourself useful to someone else, it means there's a technical definition for work. You see, when I play or when I do leisure, I'm not paid for that because I'm doing that for myself. And in fact, if I go into my basement, basement. Not that I have one anymore. Not that you have one anymore. But I remember when I had a basement. And you go down into the basement and you make a bench. You get the wood and you make a bench. Nobody's paying you for that because even that technically is not work. Well, yeah, it is work in the general sense. But it's not technically work because you're doing it for yourself. Because you're doing it for yourself, you're not making yourself useful to somebody else. Therefore it's not technically work. If you were out in the middle of the jungle, and you were so wise as to be able to do everything for yourself. You don't have to buy anything. You make all your own clothing. You catch or make all your own food. You build all your own shelter. You do everything yourself. You're doing everything for yourself. In that situation, you really don't have a civilization. You have no economy, because you're not doing anything for anyone, and no one is doing anything for you. Work, however, is what creates civilization. It makes us a family. It's not at all what it's supposed to be because we live in a broken world. But when I work, I make myself useful to other people. And civilization created by work makes people useful to me. There's a sense in which work is always a bargain. Because if I work for eight hours in almost anything I do, making myself useful to someone else, and then I get paid, the amount of money I make almost in any circumstance can buy me more things than I ever could have made myself in the period of time in which I was earning the check. It's an amazing thing that God set up. Work is how you make yourself useful for other people. In one sense, nobody is ever undercompensated for their work. Now, there is another sense in which they are, because there's a lot of inequality and unfairness. You know, you can make too little money in comparison to what other people are being paid for comparable value. But you never actually can really make too little money, amount of things you can buy with the check that you made for eight hours of work is always vastly more than you ever could have made yourself in those eight hours if you were working for yourself. What work does, it was God's invention. It was his way to create a human family. It was his way to weave people together into a civilization. And actually the more technologically advanced a civilization gets, which is what God intended, to be honest with you, he did not expect us all to live in little grass huts. He expected civilization to happen. He told Adam to have dominion, to build a civilization, to fill the earth. That's the way work was supposed to work. And to some degree, it still does, in spite of the brokenness. What does this mean? It means at least this. If you are a believer and you want to begin to get in touch with something deep in yourself that you were invented for, and that is work, you need to try to make sure that what you're doing is useful. So sometimes people say, okay, I'm a Christian, and I've got all these different kinds of jobs that are available, which one should I take? Here's a suggestion. Take verse 28 and do this. First of all, which of these jobs make me more useful to people, more useful to society, more useful to human beings? Which one? In some cases, there's not much difference and therefore fine, then you can opt for which one is more fulfilling and gratifying. In some cases, as you know, some jobs are considerably unuseful. because we live in a broken world where lots of people doing unusable things make money and lots of people doing very useful things don't make money. That's the injustice of sin. That's one of the things that makes work cursed. However, the fact is that's the first thing that a Christian should look at. Which of these kinds of vocations and jobs make me useful to human beings? Where am I giving people joy? Where am I enriching their lives? Where am I being useful? The second reason that you should take a job is the second reason that's mentioned here in verse 0.8, and that is money. It is unspiritual to say, I want a job, A, in which I'm very useful, and B, one in which I'm making money so that I can be of use to other people with my money. What's wrong with that? Especially, for example, if you're supporting a family, what's wrong with saying, I want to make as much money as possible so I can be useful to the people who most directly dependent on me, and that's my family? There's always two things that work as four to be useful itself and to make money and Those are the two reasons If you're making your money in order to help people in need Those are the two reasons why a Christian ought to try to find a job in which you have the greatest degree of usefulness and wealth Creation so that you can be of use to other people now, by the way one last thing before we move on to We move on To the other parts of the verse First, you must realize that if you didn't have this statement about usefulness, you could fall into what many Christians fall into, and that's a kind of, quote, a dualistic understanding of work. Let me explain that big word. A dualistic understanding of work, which many Christians have, arises from a dualism about life. Many Christians believe, and maybe not intellectually, but they just act like this, that there's really a sacred part of life part of life. When you come to church, it's a sacred part of life. If you go into the ministry or become a missionary or a full-time Christian worker, that's a sacred job. But if I'm just out here being a lawyer or digging a ditch, if I'm just out here being a doctor or being a businessman or woman, then that's really not sacred. That's really not God's work. And therefore, in very many times, especially in the evangelical church, this is the attitude. If you're really spiritual, full-time Christian work. But if you just have a secular job, then the best thing you can do is make money and give it to the people who are doing the real work. Now, see, some of you have not been around churches like that, and that's fine. You haven't seen that, but some of you have. It's not a biblical understanding because the Bible says you mustn't think dualistically. All of life belongs to the Lord. And no matter what you're doing, as we're going to see later on here in the book of Ephesians, whatever you do must be done for God's glory. And anything you do is a calling. Because the purpose of work is not just to make money so you can give it to people with needs. The purpose of work is also, the work itself is to be useful. The work itself is God's way of having you weave a society together. It's God's way of making you a servant. Even if the thing that you're doing useful doesn't seem very spiritual. You see, when God invented nature, when God invented the universe, he invented both a material and an immaterial part of it. You've got a soul and you've got a body. God invented both. He's redeeming both. In the end, they're both going to be saved. And therefore God sees all parts of reality as valid parts of his kingdom. And therefore, if you've got a spiritual job now, like me, and I come up and I tell you how to become a Christian, and I'm paid for that, that seems so much more sacred, doesn't it? than if you're doing something with your hands. The fact is God invented both the material and the immaterial. God's going to redeem both the material and the immaterial. And we're all called to take our gifts and our talents and to make ourselves useful.

And therefore, a Christian doesn't just say, well, I'm just not doing real work. I'm doing secular work. And the only thing I can do with it is take that money and give it to missionaries and poor people, and that's it. The Bible says not only do you work to make money, of other people. It's one of the main ways for you to make a decision about what job you're going to have, especially if you have a choice between jobs. Now, there's more to it than that, by the way. You also have to recognize this. You have to recognize how God's built you. If you say, well, I could be very useful and I could make a lot of money in business. On the other hand, God has made me an artist and therefore, you've also got to be in touch with a calling that you've got and with talents that you've got that might be God calling you to make yourself useful to mankind

As well paying. As some other ways of making yourself useful. That's part of the injustice of society. That's part of what makes work. Hurst. But work is not a curse. And if you give your job. And if you give your gifts. And if you submit yourself to the Lord. And you begin to say. I'm going to give you this. And I'm going to work it on the principles. The work will always have. A dustiness about it. The work will always have. A decay about it. You will always be frustrated. You will never achieve what you want to. the curse of the brokenness of the world lies upon it. And yet, try the alternative. Just go ahead. See if you can, and there's ways to do it, make money without being useful to anybody. And have enough money so that you can live without being useful to anybody, and you find out how fulfilling of an existence that is. You know why that it's absolutely frustrating? You know why it's, in the end, dehumanizing? Because you're not honoring the design of your creator the word of God. You can't actually disobey the word of God. The law of God, if you break it, eventually it breaks you. Because you're built for this. Now, the second thing we see in this verse, the first thing we saw was that work has these two purposes. The second thing we see, and this is something that we touched on a couple weeks ago. Remember that awful night when Mike was dying and a lot of you were very frustrated. Some of you wrote it on your little cart. Rightly so, saying, get that mic fixed please, I can't stand it. And I did. It's fixed. You remember, some of you remember that night, I read the cards.

I don't want you to overlook this. Verse 28 teaches that work has got two purposes. Also, verse 28 teaches that Christians steal.

Let's not forget that. You remember that point? But let me, at least in passing, remind you. Look, it says, he who has been stealing must steal no longer. This means Since Paul has written this book, not just the Ephesians. If you can remember the introductory remarks we made many, many weeks ago now. This book, the letter of Ephesians was probably a circulatory letter. It was probably a letter, for various reasons scholars think that it was a letter that was not just written to the Ephesians, but there was a letter written to many, many churches. There's almost no references, specific references to a particular church, particular people, the way you have it on the Corinthians letters and so on. probably a letter that was written to many churches. It was an instruction letter. It was an execution letter to many churches. And all through here, Paul is telling Christians, this letter is written to Christians, how they're supposed to live. And he says, stop lying. Why? Because Christians lie. He says, stop being bitter. Why? Because Christians don't forgive. And here he has the audacity to say, stop stealing. Well, doesn't he know he's writing to Christians? Christians wouldn't steal. Here we have the two sides here we have two sides of a truth that cuts two ways. On the one hand, you have a place like 1 Corinthians 6 that says, do not be deceived. Neither liars, nor thieves, it talks about nor adulterers, nor drunkards, and it makes a long list of all sorts of sins. These people will not inherit the kingdom of God and such were some of you. But you were sanctified. You were justified. See, on the one hand, you have a passage like 1 Corinthians 6 that says, if you say you're a Christian and yet you persist in wicked behavior, you do not have any right to assume that you're a Christian, regardless of what little cards you've signed, regardless of who laid hands on you, regardless of what kinds of rituals and events you went through. if you refuse to obey if you continue to persist year after year without making progress out of these particular patterns you cannot assume that you're really a Christian that's the one side the Bible says that in many different ways by the fruits we shall know them and so on here on the other hand you've got the other side Paul assumes that Christians real Christians committed Christians things still can fall into very serious sin. And why does he suggest that? Because it's not just him, it's because the whole Bible shows us. Here you have David, great believer, committed believer, more than a committed believer, king of Israel. You know, that's a pretty high office. Who killed Uriah in order to marry the woman that he's having an adulterous affair with, that's Peter. That's David. Here's Peter, who's warned that he's going to deny Jesus publicly. And in the full light of everybody watching him denies Jesus publicly three times. Here's Abraham, Father Abraham. And he comes down into Egypt with his wife Sarah, who was evidently a gorgeous woman. And considering she was probably in her 70s or 80s, she must have really been a gorgeous woman. And when he goes down to Egypt, somebody's going to kill him in order to get her because she's that desirable. So what he decides to do is he says, when Pharaoh says, hey, who is that beautiful woman there? Oh, this is my sister, says Abraham. And Pharaoh says, great, I'm going to take her into myself and take her into my bedroom and we're going to have relations and so on. And Abraham says, it's fine. And, you know, it's right there in the book of Genesis. God appears to Pharaoh and says, Pharaoh, I'm about to kill you. because you're going to commit adultery with another man's wife. And he says, what? Another man's wife? Who? And then God explains and says, that is not Abraham's sister. That's his wife. Pharaoh says, wait right there. And he goes to Abraham and says, why have you done this? Abraham says, I was scared. I was afraid. I was afraid that you would plot. I mean, I was afraid you'd want her and you'd plot to kill me. and Pharaoh, you know, Pharaoh of course disputes with him. Pharaoh castigates him. Pharaoh denounces him. Pharaoh curses him. Abraham walks out of Egypt rightly so humble, penitent. How could I have done this? You know how many chapters later he does the same thing? The same thing. He goes back to Egypt he does the same thing. Well, wait a minute. Do real believers fall into sin? Here you have David. Abraham. Here you have Job, person of the day he's born. In deep depression. Do Christians get depressed? Do Christians fall into adulterous affairs? Do Christians chicken out? Do Christians lie? Do Christians steal? You know, the gospel is a strange one. Because on the one hand, the gospel says real Christians change. On the last day, the judge is going to look at your works. Why? because even though you're not saved by your works, you're saved by faith, but real faith will always issue in works. And therefore on your last day, he will look at your works. He will look at them. You better look at them. Are you glowing in love, enjoying peace and patience and self-control? Are you glowing in courage? Are those changes happening? Are wicked patterns being pushed behind or not? If they're not, you have to begin to question your foundation. That's what the Bible says. And yet on the other hand, at the very same time the Bible says and yet you're not saved by your works. You're saved by faith. And real Christians still have sin in their lives which bit by bit by bit and gradually they're putting behind them. And yet real Christians do lapse and real Christians do fall down and real Christians do steal.

And that means that we have to be on the lookout. If you think, and I know especially if you're a new believer, please listen to me. If you're a new believer, it's very likely that you've experienced tremendous release and a tremendous amount of progress in certain areas and you say, thank goodness, I'm a Christian now, I can't fall back into those sorts of things. And I just want you to realize that's not true. God does not give you some kind of... Your faith is not like a thermostat. It's not like when temptation shows up now, your faith is going to automatically kick in. Faith is something that you have to put into practice. Faith is something that you have to do. capable. And Paul says, let the thief no longer steal. He's saying, if you have been a thief, I want you to realize it's still possible for you to be a thief. Therefore, you must get yourself involved in a great fulfilling career. You must learn the fulfillment, the deep fulfillment that comes from actually making money through making yourself useful to someone else. You've got to learn the glories of generosity and the fulfillment of generosity. And until that's begun to happen, really put your thieving patterns behind you. Now, this is all actually helpful. I know it's a warning, but you know what the bottom line is? The gospel is a power. The gospel is not just for nice people. The gospel is not just for functional family children. The gospel is not just for well-adjusted people. The gospel is for kleptomaniacs. The gospel is for cowards like Abraham. The gospel is for sexually driven people like David. The gospel is for anyone. No one is hopeless. The gospel is a power. That's why Paul says to the Corinthians, don't you know that homosexuality, that adultery, that addiction, don't you know that thievery, don't you know that extortion, and he lists all these amazing, life-dominating kinds of patterns. Don't you know that these people, he says, if you persist in this, of God. But then he turns around and says, but such were some of you. But you were washed. You were justified. You were sanctified. It doesn't matter what you were. He says in 1 Corinthians 1, he says, consider your call, brethren. He's fighting the brothers and sisters. Consider your call, brethren. He says, when you were called, not many of you were noble. Not many of you were high. Not many of you were wise. Not many of you were wealthy. He says, just remember where you were when you were called. God loves little people. God loves the people in whom he can manifest his power in the most glorious and obvious kind of way. He says, but God chose the foolish things to shame the wise. God chose the weak things to shame the strong. God chose even the despised and foolish things, even the things that are not, to bring to nothing the things that are. But no one will boast in his presence so that God's grace might be triumphant over everything else. The gospel is a power. matter what you have done, and it even doesn't matter what you're stuck in now.

Stealing's pretty serious. These things are pretty serious. It doesn't matter. Every conceivable kind of person has been changed by the gospel, and you're no exception. Now, the third thing is we see what the Bible says about work, and we see what the Bible says about the power of God to overcome even life-dominating patterns like stealing. feeling, but lastly, we see what the Bible says about wealth. And at least let me give you a few ideas. Most of these things are written out. I took this section and I wrote it out.

Here's basically what you have in front of you. The Bible says you're supposed to work so you get money so you can help other people. Again, I've already alluded to this. Paul is giving you a kind of psychology lesson. Have you ever heard the old joke, when is a door not a door? I'll give it away. When is a door not a door? When it's a jar. Isn't that sweet? Okay. When it is a jar. Haven't you ever heard that? When is a door not a door? When it is a jar. Alright. Let's just say that you're locked in a pattern of theft. When is a thief not a thief? When he stops stealing? That's not what Paul says. If you want profound change, it's not good enough for you to simply stop doing the wrong thing. You're doing the wrong thing because you're trying to fulfill needs in ways that don't really fulfill you. And you see, thievery is a way of getting money without work. Why? When is a thief not a thief? When he becomes a generous person. Not when he stops stealing, not when he just puts off theft, but when he puts on the right attitude toward money. And not only that, look, what is money? In New York, people know this, but most of the other places people don't like to talk about this. Money is power. Money is a form of power. The more money you have, the more options you have, and more than that, the more money you have, the more of the world you have to take care of. now the reason that is just about as profound a concept to our hearts as sex is because when God put Adam and Eve here on earth, one of the things he immediately invented them for was for each other and that's the reason why sexuality is a powerful drive on us God invented us as male and female and it's when we get together that we sense who we really are it's together that we reflect the image of God It's together that we realize that we're in the presence of something else that we need to be completed. Sexuality is a very powerful thing because we're built for relationship. We're built for love. We're built for understanding and knowledge. But money is so powerful because Adam and Eve were also put down here to take care of the Garden. We were built to be caretakers. We were built to have parts of God's world that we were trustees of. Therefore, we need to own things. And when we own things, we experience a dignity that was originally put into our nature at the beginning. Why do you think one of the worst things that can happen to you when you're put into prison is to be stripped of all your belongings? It's a tremendous punishment. It's dehumanizing. You lose all dignity. Anybody who's ever been in prison will tell you that. It's not the confinement so much. Hey, haven't you ever been in college? I mean, you get confined. Haven't you ever been in the kind of... A lot of you are in the kind of jobs right now where you're confined. It's not the confinement that's so dehumanizing about prison. It's the fact that you own nothing. You were built to own things. You were built to have something in the world to take care of. You were built to care for things. One of the reasons why communism and some forms of socialism, extreme collectivism, has failed is because Adam and Eve were put here to take care of things. We were built to own things. We were built to have power over something

for, ours to cultivate, and therefore you're stripped of your dignity. You're dehumanized in extreme collectivism. You lose your incentive to work because you don't feel like a human being. In the same way, then, money is tremendously powerful in our lives because by it, just like in sex, we're fulfilling something, a need that God put in us at the beginning. money and the accumulation of money and therefore the power to take care of more and more of the world that money brings also meets a deep need. That's why sex and money go together. That's why sex and money both are so powerful in shaping our behavior. But now listen, that's also why sex and money are very normal idols. What is an idol covenant? You see that on the sheet there. It's very normal for us to make idol covenants with sex and money. Now, an idol covenant, we talked about it. If any of you were at the self-image talks, we talked about it. An idol is something that you use in order to get fulfillment for needs that only God can fulfill. And a covenant means, whether you know it or not, you make a contract and you create a religion around the idol. So, for example, some of us need to feel sexually attractive And the idol is like a little god in our lives that blesses us or curses us, like a god, depending on whether we're obeying it or not. So some of us have a very, very deep idol covenant with sex. And we're not talking just about the actual intercourse sex. We're just talking about sexuality in general. Some of you need to be desired. You need to feel sexually attracted. It has become not just your dignity, which is what God invented sex to be, but it's become your definition. You're defined by it. If you're not sexually attracted, you're nothing. You've got to have it. It's become your God. It's become your identity. It's become the thing that defines you and drives you. It's become you. If you get wrinkled. If you get older. If you get overweight. If you just get into a trough where nobody seems to be desiring you. What's happened to you emotionally? Huh? You're all broken up. Why? Because something that should be your dignity, a real need, has moved over into becoming an idol.

Money's the same way. You're built for money. That's the reason why the only way that a thief can stop being a thief is when he gets the right understanding and attitude toward money, when it's no longer an idol in his name. And that's why we put down here on the sheet that money should be our dignity. And it gives you dignity to have money, but it becomes our definition. It gives you a sense of worth. You appreciate yourself and others completely in terms of financial worth. Now, if you want to know whether you've got an idol covenant, here's some suggestions, and they're all there, laid out in the scriptures. If you find yourself envying other people's possessions and power, you've got an idol covenant operating when it comes to money. You know, one of the Ten Commandments is, Thou shalt not covet. That's pretty important. All right? If God gave you ten, ten guidelines for all of life, and one of them is, don't envy other people's possessions. sign of an idol covenant. Another sign of it is regular, normal kind of anxiety, constant anxiety, debilitating anxiety, self-absorbing anxiety over money. It says in Matthew chapter 6, you're not supposed to worry about these things. Here's what's so ironic. Worry about money is the way us poor people have our idol covenant. If you don't have any money, you say, hey, money's not my idol. I wish I had enough money to worship. I can't worship it. You say, I've had people say that. But you see, there's more than one way to have an idol covenant. You know? In other words, you can make sex an idol whether or not you're attractive. And you can make money an idol whether or not you have it. And the way, the sign of an idol covenant is different if you have it than if you don't have it. And if you don't have it, one of the things that happens is a continual envy but also a continual anxiety over money. Another one is a clear bias in making relations with people who've got more money. The book of James talks a great deal about this. The book of James says, Out in the world, people who've got idol covenants with money make all of their relationships on the basis of who's got it and who doesn't. But when you get in the church, James says, you have got to leave that entire way of thinking and doing business at the door. The book of James is all about that. And of course, we all know that people don't necessarily leave that at the door when they come on into the house of God. have. Another sign of an idol covenant is fondling elegant things in the heart.

That's a pretty specific one. The Bible talks about that. And lastly, the final example of an idol covenant with money is stinginess. An unwillingness to be generous. Now, what are we supposed to do about this? What if it's true? How can we use money constructively? How can we keep it from being our dignity, our definition, so it's only our dignity? I just laid down here really three principles, and I might be able next week to come back to a couple of them, but I'll just outline them here. You have got to press almost like, you know how you have to rub salt into a wound for it to keep from going bad back in the old days? You can rub salt or seasoning into meat so it doesn't go bad. You've got to rub these three principles continually into your thinking about money, or your thinking about money will go bad. Don't forget, it's cursed. and so it's going to have a tendency to go foul. Just like meat goes foul unless you do something about it, unless you refrigerate it or put some kind of preservative in it, the same thing will happen in your attitude toward money unless you're pressing these things in. First of all, you've got to continually remember God owns everything. The earth is the Lord and the fullness thereof. Everything under heaven belongs to Him. The problem with that is most of us don't believe it. We say, hey, I worked hard for what little I have. I earned it. Oh, you did. Right. You earned it. Did you earn the brain with which you're earning the money? Did you earn your position, your friendships? Is it an accident that most of you are now living in a country of the world in which the paper boys make more than 50% of the labors of the rest of the world? You know, there's all kinds of marvelous resources and all kinds of marvelous strengths and resources really that you have with which you earned what you have Did you earn that? No, they were gifts. Everything you've got's a gift. And therefore, everything you own belongs to God, and you're only the trustee of it. And that cuts two ways. It means, on the one hand, you are built to care for things. If you do not have things, you do sense a kind of dehumanizing influence going on in your life. But on the other hand, you own things only as a trustee. And that means, you know, right? If you're a stockbroker, managing someone else's money. You have to treat it like someone else's money. In a sense, you live off of how well you do with that other person's money. Some of that is actually coming to you. The fact is you can't act for it as if it's yours. You have got to make sure you invest it as... You give advice, but you have to invest it as, ultimately, the owner of the money wants it to be invested. You can't regard yourself as a private person. Well, that's the way you are with everything you own. What are God's priorities? What does He want you to do with it? And there's three things that the Bible continually says are God's priorities. He wants you to use it for his work and the spread of his kingdom. Secondly, he wants you to use it for the poor. And thirdly, he wants you to use it for people in need who are in covenant with you. That means people in your family. That means people in your church. That means people in relationship with you who get into need. Needy people in the covenant. Poor people in general. And the work of the kingdom. them. And you know what's really weird? The Bible, when it says, if you're not giving to these needs, in the Old Testament especially, it never calls that stinginess. What does it call it? He calls it robbery. You see, if it was your money and you don't give it, you're stingy. If it's somebody else's money and you don't use it as he directs, that's embezzlement. That's robbery. And therefore, when you refuse to be generous with your money to people, when you refuse to give it away in eye-popping proportions, the way the Bible says that the early Christians did, then what happens is you are not just being stingy. You're being a robber. Now, final thing at this point. The Bible tells us that, and when we get back we can talk about some of the rules about giving. Some people say, tell me what you believe about the tithe, how in the Old Testament the believers were required to give away a tenth of their income to the poor and to God's work and so on. But this is what you have to keep in mind. The Bible says the thing that controls the way Christians deal with their wealth, they're controlled by a sight of what Jesus Christ has done for them. Maybe the best illustration I can think of is this. You know how the Bible says Jesus Christ was rich, and though he was rich, he became poor, so that through his poverty you could become rich. A Christian gets a hold of that, and it completely changes the way in which you think. about your things. The best illustration, and some of you know how much I love the illustration. The best illustration I can think of is this. If you suddenly were told, and of course, some of you have experienced this. If you were told that you are going to die of a disease, doesn't that really change the way in which you look at many things? There's so many things that used to be very valuable to you. But now who cares? Who cares about them? But suddenly, suppose someone comes and has just made available a particular medicine that will be an infallible cure of your disease. And you say, this is the answer to my prayers. This is everything I've asked for. Give it to me. And suppose I said, well, no, here's a problem with it. It's incredibly expensive. It's so expensive that it will probably take everything you have virtually to buy it. You're going to have to sell your home and move into a cramped little rental space. You're going to have to sell many of your possessions. your uh your uh your cd you're gonna have to get rid of your uh you know your car you're gonna have to uh get rid of your all of your collections of things i mean you're gonna have to strip down you may not want it you may not want to do that this is really expensive you may not want to do that for that medicine you look at me and you say wait a minute what good is my cd player if i don't have that what good is my house if i don't have that medicine what good are all these things these things, I admit, you say, they used to be incredibly important things. But you see, this medicine now is so precious to me that all these other things that I used to find important have become expendable. It's a sense like, you know, when the sun comes out, you know, the stars are still there. You can't see them because the sun is so bright. And when this medicine comes out, you say, all these other things that were so important to me, now I've got to have... ...
