in your bulletin. It takes a whole page up and unfortunately it's actually not long enough to give you the whole story. It's a long narrative section. It tells us about one of the first, the first martyr, one of the very first heroes of the Christian faith, Stephen. And the story of Stephen starts in chapter six and goes all the way to the end of chapter seven, which is a very long chapter. And I can only give you in a sense the beginning and the ending of it, but we'll look at the entire storyline as we go along. In those days when the number of disciples was increasing, the Grecian Jews among them complained against the Hebraic Jews because their widows were being overlooked in the daily distribution of food. So the twelve gathered all the disciples together and said, it would not be right for us to neglect the ministry of the Word of God in order to wait on tables. Brothers, choose seven men from among you who are known to be full of the Spirit and wisdom. We will turn this responsibility over to them and give our attention to prayer in the ministry of the word. This proposal pleased the whole group, and they chose Stephen, a man full of faith and of the Holy Spirit, also Philip, Procurus, Nicanor, Timon, Parmenas, and Nicholas from Antioch, a convert to Judaism. They presented these men to the apostles who prayed and laid their hands on them. So the word of God spread, and the number of disciples in Jerusalem and a large number of priests became obedient to the faith. Now Stephen, a man full of God's grace and power, did great wonders and miraculous signs amongst the people. Opposition arose, however, from members of the synagogue of the freedmen, as it was called, Jews of Cyrene and Alexandria, as well as the provinces of Cilicia and Asia. These men began to argue with Stephen, but they could not stand up against his wisdom or the spirit by whom he spoke. And then they secretly persuaded some to say, we have heard Stephen speak words of blasphemy against Moses and against God. So they stirred up the people and the elders and the teachers of the law, and they seized Stephen and brought him before the Sanhedrin. They produced false witnesses who testified, this fellow never stopped speaking against this holy place and against the law. We've heard him say that this Jesus of Nazareth will destroy this place and change the customs Moses handed down to us. all who were sitting in the Sanhedrin looked intently at Stephen and they saw that his face was like the face of an angel. Now, at this point, he goes into a long speech. And when he ends, it says, when they heard this, they were furious and gnashed their teeth at him. But Stephen, full of the Holy Spirit, looked up to heaven and saw the glory of God and Jesus standing at the right hand of God. Look, he said, I see heaven open and the Son of Man standing at the right At this, they covered their ears, and yelling at the top of their voices, they rushed at him, dragged him out of the city, and began to stone him. Meanwhile, the witnesses laid their clothes at the feet of a young man named Saul. And while they were stoning him, Stephen prayed, Lord Jesus, receive my spirit. And then he fell on his knees and cried out, Lord, do not hold this sin against them. And when he had said this, he fell asleep. This is God's Word. If you want to know what we're doing all fall, and some of you think it's about time I told you, in all these messages, we're really looking at the phenomenon of the early church, because the book of Acts, which we're looking at every week, tells us about the astonishing spread of Christianity. And I've found that as a background for doing this series of messages and teachings, I've done some reading in the early history. I found another quote from a historian who said, never in so short a time has any other religious faith, or for that matter, any other set of ideas, religious, political, or economic, without the aid of physical force or of social or cultural prestige, ever achieved so commanding a position in such an important culture. In other words, there's been other political movements, religious movements that have worked through conquest or through politics, but never like this. In such a brief period of time, it sweeps the empire, and not only does it just simply get a lot of converts, but it changed the very cultural gestalt of that Greco-Roman culture, as powerful as it was. I am continually amazed, and I continually go back to it. There's a letter that has come down to us. It's just been preserved by a nondescript, kind of anonymous Roman businessman who was on business in Alexandria and he was writing home to his pregnant wife. And in the letter he does a little chit-chatting about this and that. And then he says, oh, and by the way, when the baby's born, if it's a girl, throw it out. Just like that. That was the culture that was, that brutal culture was utterly changed by the spread of the gospel. Why? And see, every week we've been looking at secrets? What are the causes of this astonishing, unprecedented, unique-in-history sweep? And we've looked at their experience of supernatural power. We've looked at their attitude toward truth. We've looked at their approach to persecution. But today, we see something here that is a little hard to get. In fact, over the years, I've never seen how it all flows together. But what we're told here is that the lifestyle of the Christians was characterized by a spirit. The lifestyle, the way they dealt with the people around them, the society around them, it was characterized by a spirit that was unprecedented and melted the hearts and won the people, of the people who watched them and who were observing. I'm going to call this a priestly Spirit. This whole passage is about priests and the priesthood. If you look carefully, in the very beginning, I'm just going to be... just give you a brief survey here. In chapter 6, we see that the early church took care of the poor, radical ways of doing it. And we're told that when the problem was breaking down, it would be interesting, it would be a great whole teaching to see why there were... in this multicultural first church, and tensions, you see, between the Greek-speaking Jews and the Hebrew-speaking Jews. Things went wrong, and the apostles decided that's because we're trying to do too many things. We're wearing too many hats. So they gave the job of caring for the poor, for the economically and for the politically powerless, and they said, you all do it. And they gave it to a group of people who specialized in it and were told in verse 7, as a result of this enhanced ministry of not just word ministry but deed ministry, not just ministry to the soul but to the body. Holistic ministry. It says the word of God spread rapidly and a whole bunch, look at verse seven, a whole lot of priests were converted. Why? Because the priests saw a whole community doing what the priesthood should do. In the Old Testament, it was the priests who took care of the poor. They got the tithes. The priests and the Levites took care of the poor and they looked at this church and they said, here's a whole group of people, and they're all acting like priests. They're acting like they're all priests. The sympathy, the service, the involvement with people's needs, and there was an impact, and they were converted. But we're told that's not all. Stephen did not just act like a priest. He said, the temple's not necessary anymore. Do you see that? That's what got him into terrible trouble. They came together and they said, this fellow never stops speaking against this holy place. He says that just Jesus is going to make the temple unnecessary. It's going to make the priesthood unnecessary. And Stephen did say that. And as a result, they were about to stone him. And he looked up to heaven at the end of his speech. And I'll tell you about that speech in a second. Because in that speech, he says, yeah, that's right. We don't need the temple anymore because he looks up to heaven, and he says, I see heaven open, and I see Jesus Christ standing at the right hand of the Father. I see Jesus my priest. I see heaven open, and they couldn't stand it, and they killed him. Now, I want you to see this. Christians did not sweep the empire simply because they were so nice. They were very nice, by the way. They were very nice, But they weren't nice just because let's be nice. They weren't nice because let's just pour ourselves out. Let's just do it as a matter of duty. They were changed by this dynamic because they saw that Jesus was their high priest. They themselves had a priestly spirit. They themselves lived as if they were priests as well. Now, it's that priestly lifestyle which really changed that empire and had such a huge impact on people. Now, having said that, I know I'm in trouble. Here's why I'm in trouble. I'm in trouble because the word priest, the idea of priest, which is very intrinsic to this passage and to the New Testament, means very little to us modern people now. Is that not right? When you think of a priest, what do you think? See, at worst, you think of somebody very remote, disapproving, kind of intimidating. At very best, what do you think of? Bing Crosby, you know? I mean, you know, at very best, you think of somebody affable and kind of sweet. At very worst, someone remote. And we have to get back into what a priest is and was in all religions to understand why Stephen and the early church lived the lives they lived. Now, let me just say, if you want a definition of a priest, about Bing Crosby or without thinking about the bad priests we've seen in movies or the good priests and so forth. The definition of a priest that is true for every religion, every culture, everybody. I'm not just talking about one particular religion for a minute. Any priest anywhere was this. A priest, number one, went in, and number two, for others. A priest went into God for others. Let's look at that for a second. First of all, a priest was somebody who went in to God.

You don't feel in every religion, every religion, every culture up until the most recent modern Western culture everybody always felt you know I'm unworthy to go in before the divine. I'm unworthy to go in. I need somebody to go in who's better than me. And see in every culture what you'd always do is you would come in and you would give your offerings and you would give your needs to the priest. And what would the priest do? The priest would go in. The priest would go close to God, to the holy of holies, and the priest was more holy. The priest was more spiritual. The priest was the person who was better than you, and he would go in on your behalf. He would go in as your representative, and then you felt better because we didn't feel like we could go all the way in ourselves. And you know what? It's interesting. A lot of people today would say, well, that's really remote. That's unnecessary. That's... Back in those days, people felt that way. They felt unacceptable. They felt that they couldn't just go into God. But we now believe differently. We don't have that same sense of sinfulness and shame that people used to have. I beg to differ. You know, Le Cirque? Le Cirque is a place where all the high and mighty and powerful eat. That's where the elite meet to eat, okay? And I go by it fairly often because, you know, you drive by it if you're going through the park or you walk by it. And, boy, you ought to see the way people are out of that place. And I have never gone in. And every so often I would just love to sort of peek in and see what the inside looks like and see what famous people I might see. But I'll tell you this, if I was walking by in jeans and sneakers, I wouldn't be tempted. Because we have a sense that whenever you find a place that's holy, a place with powerful people, a place of influence, a place of importance. You can't just go in. You've got to look your best. You've got to be your best. You wouldn't just go in natural. We all sense that. In Roosevelt Island, there's a kind of art place where they have art and sculpture outdoors. And Kathy and I have never really been that impressed with most of the exhibits, but there's one right now that we love. And when you first go up to it, it looks like a bunch of cloth chandeliers, draped chandeliers. but if you look closely, it's nothing but prom dresses, party dresses with lights inside. And you know what the name of the exhibit is? Choose Me. We know that if you're going, if this is your debut, if you're looking for romance, you can't just go in. You can't just go natural. You got to look great. You got to cover yourself. You've got to minimize the bad things about yourself, what's called your physical deficits, and you have to maximize the physical assets. We all sense that. But you know counselors tell you about something called transference. In transference, you transfer an anxiety you have about one authority figure to another. And of course in Freudianism, transference meant that you start to treat the counselor like authority figures. But the Bible talks about a much more powerful transcendence, a transference than that. The Bible says all of us feel like outsiders. You know why Le Cirque is such a powerful name? What does it mean? The circle. Ah, the inner ring. Wouldn't you like to be in the circle? And you know, I understand in those powerful restaurants when you go in, there's more than one circle. There's tables and then there's tables. Right? And you know, you can't just be anybody. I mean, if you're willing to go to Le Cirque and you don't know anybody and you don't know anybody, but you're willing to, you know, to pay the price, they'll put you in some table way over here. But then there's the circle, and there's circles inside the circles, and not anybody can get into the circle. Dear friends, a lot of you have come to New York to break in, and you feel like outsiders. We always feel like outsiders. We have to cover up. We have to dress beautifully. Choose me. Accept me. But we know that we're unacceptable. There's a side of us that knows that. And the Bible says that we transfer our sense of being shut out from the Garden of Eden, shut out from the circle around the throne of God, that we know that because of our sin, God sees our hearts and doesn't like what he sees. And we've transferred that. And we try our very best to get into other circles of influence, places of importance. And we know our hearts that if they see who we really are, they won't let us in. So what do you have to do? We take verbal advantage. Have you read about verbal advantage? The advertisements are great. Verbal advantage says increase your word power. People know who you are by your words. Get control, they say, of your relationships. Get control of your interviews and increase your word power. You see, you're unhappy, but you don't want people to reject you, so paste a smile on. Cover yourself. You don't have good vocabulary, okay? Cover yourself with verbal advantage. Don't let people see who you really are. We all feel like outsiders. We all know we're outsiders. And the Bible says it's not just those old cultures that knew it. We know it too. We know you just can't go into God. We know you just can't go in natural. We know there's something wrong with us. You know what's so amazing? We compensate. That's the transference. Psychologically, there's many of us that have had, right? Many of you have had rejecting parents. And so you blame them for the feeling of always being an outsider, never feeling like I can break in. Listen, that was a very terrible thing that you had, rejecting parents. But you mustn't do such a shallow analysis as to think that's the ultimate cause. That's aggravated your situation. Some of you are racial minorities in a dominant culture, by something else and you may feel alienated and you may feel that there's been prejudice and you know what? That is a terrible evil. But you must not blame all of that sense of being an outsider on the sociological. Just like the person with rejecting parents must not blame all of their sense of being an outsider on the psychological. Don't you know the liberal thing is to say I feel alienated because it's an unjust society and the conservative approach is to say I feel alienated and I'm going to do social climbing going to get up there. I'm going to marry well. I'm going to get in. I'm going to get into the right tables in the Cirque. And it won't work. You've transferred your sense of being an outsider. The real door that we all know is shut against us is the door of God's heaven, the door of Eden, the door of God's presence. And because we feel that shame, we transfer it to every place else. but Stephen has the audacity to look up and say, I see heaven open. Open! Stephen acts like he's a priest. Stephen acts like he's okay. Stephen acts like he has access. And you know, one of the things that's so amazing about Stephen is his very demeanor was exhibit A. They were astonished. Here is Stephen talking with extreme boldness, laying it out, not being afraid of anything. You know why? He acted as if he really could stand before the face of God. He acted like he really had gone in. Because if you can stand before the face of God and look God in the face, then you don't have to be afraid of anything else. And Stephen acted like a priest. There was this incredible boldness and courage. And they were furious. Now, here's the point. Priests go in. Stephen acted like anybody can go in. Heaven is open now. We can go in. It doesn't matter. And that's the reason why they accused him of what? They accused him of breaking the law. You see, they didn't just say he speaks against the temple, which he does. It also tells us he but he doesn't. For the last thing he said, and I didn't have it printed here, the last thing he says in his speech is this. He says, oh, you stiff-necked people, you talk of the law, but you've never kept it. But God sent his righteous one, but you rejected him. Now, here's the problem. They got mad at that. That's where they said they were furious and then gnashed his teeth. Why? He says, don't you want, don't you know something? You've never kept the law. and the temple and the law is a failure to bring you to God. Now, they got very angry about it, but they shouldn't have because this was not a new teaching. If you go back into the place in the Old Testament that sets up, it's in Exodus chapters 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, it tells, it sets it all up. It says, here's how the tabernacles to be built. Here's how the Here's how the priests are to dress. And, of course, the priests look beautiful. You know, have you ever seen a priest in street clothes? They aren't like that, not when they're ministering. The priests of every culture, of every religion, they've always looked beautiful. And if you read the description of the garments of the priests in Exodus 28 and 29, you'll see that they were made of scarlet and blue and gold and linen and white, and it was just amazing. right in the middle of Exodus chapter 28, verse 36, right in the middle of all the description of what the priests were to wear, get this. It says, And make a plate of pure gold, and engrave on it as a seal, holy to the Lord. And let Aaron wear it. It will be on Aaron's forehead, so he can bear the iniquity of the holy things that are offered. The iniquity of the holy things. Listen, that little verse is a bombshell and it proves that Stephen is right. What did Stephen say? Stephen says, you've never kept the law, but God has sent the one who keeps the law for us. You've never kept the law, but God has sent his righteous one. What is he saying? He says that those priests and those sacrifices couldn't get us in. There was iniquity in their holy things. See, the priests dressed beautifully and they washed and they prayed it as they could, you know? That's the idea of a priest. Send somebody in who's better than you. And they brought in their sacrifices. But what even the Old Testament says, that even the most holy things were filled with iniquity. Now, do you not know that? This is not just the teaching of Stephen and the New Testament. This is the teaching of the Old Testament. Madeline Mary O'Hare, famous atheist, I read an essay by her lately, and she says, Well, now people ask atheists, what do they live by? She decided not to live by the golden rule. You know why? She says, unrealistic. The golden rule says, you meet the needs of other people with all the joy, energy, and creativity, and faithfulness with which you meet your own needs. Everybody knows that. She realizes that is too much. She said she tries to live by Kant's categorical imperative, which is just to treat people as ends and not means to an end. And she says, I can't even do that. Anybody who says, you know what, it doesn't matter what you believe, as long as you live by the golden rule, has never looked at the golden rule. Do you know the iniquity of your holy things? I try very hard to repent, but if I ever look at my repentance, I see it's filled with false motives. Oh, the iniquity of our holy things. I try to obey, but it's always halfway there, and then even my motives are impure. Oh, the iniquity of my holy things. Stephen says nobody has ever obeyed the law and even those wonderful priests could not bring us to God. But God sent his righteous one and you rejected him. And he says if you reject the righteous one, there's no hope for you. And here's the reason why. Christianity has the highest, now listen carefully, and the lowest standards of any religion. People think that Christianity, and they thought that Stephen was saying, well, you don't have to have a law. You don't have to be good. You mean you can just walk on in? And Stephen said, listen, every other religion says, try your best and maybe God will accept you. But I say to you that I have a higher view of the law than you do because I believe that God says, only will I accept the perfect. God's eyes than can behold iniquity. God alone is perfect, but God demands perfection. And here's what's so wonderful. The Christian faith says you have to be perfect to get in, but Jesus has done it for you. And on the one hand, that means that Christianity has the highest standards of all. Every other religion says try your best, live up to the standards, and maybe God will let you in, maybe you'll be saved. What? Says Christianity? Try your best? Nobody gets in like that. We have a God who is completely just, completely holy, cannot behold evil, but we have a righteous one who has fulfilled that. And because the righteous one has fulfilled that, we can go in on his coattails. We belong to him. He's done it for us. Pascal, the great and brilliant philosopher, years ago tried to decide whether he believed Christianity was the true religion. And he comes up with this. It's an amazing statement. He decided Christianity was the most amazing one because he says every other religion can deal with either your human pride or human despair, but not with both. He says, don't you see, every religion comes up and says, strive to be like this. And if you try hard, even though you may fail, but if you try hard, if you're one of the best, you can make it. He says now, if you feel you have strived and you have obeyed the standards, he says that will give you confidence but you're going to have a tremendous problem with superiority toward others. On the other hand, if you feel like you've failed to reach the law and the standards, that will make you humble but you're going to have filled with guilt and despair. He says, only Christianity does this. It destroys both pride and despair. Every other religion creates proud people and despondent people. But Christianity first shows you a law that has to be totally fulfilled, destroying your pride. But then Christianity shows you a Savior who's totally fulfilled it, getting rid of your despair. And that's the reason you have a priest Jesus Christ, who on the one hand lives the perfect life, but dies the perfect death. And when you know that you can go into him, finally accepted, finally loved, looking as beautiful as those priests looked, here's the dream to walk into Le Cirque. And have everybody dazzled with you. And everybody say, come to the best table. Dazzled with your beauty, maybe dazzled with your brilliance, dazzled with your ability. Can you imagine it? but this is the real cirque. This is the real circle. Stephen says, heaven is open because our priest stands before the right hand of the Father. And as a result, look at Stephen himself. Now, counselors, this is what your people need and this is what you need. This is the thing beneath all the other things. This is the thing beneath the psychological problems, the sociological problems. This is it. Because we have a priest that goes all the way in to God and he does it for us. We can stand as priests before God. Now, the response to this, the result of this, was look at Stephen living like a priest. What does it mean to live like a priest? This is how all the Christians live. Let me just go down the little list for you. Look at yourselves. Are you Christians? If you think you're saved by your good works, there'll be a veneer of pride, and there'll be an underbelly of anxiety. One of the things that bothers me most about churches is that on the average, churches, and yes, conservative churches too, on the average, the people in those churches are much touchier, much more prone to bicker, much more prone to gossip, much more prone to bite and devour each other than your average YMCA. The average non-Christian body is far more tolerant, far more loving in many ways, far less, you know, biting and scratching and devouring and angry and gossipy than the average Christian community. You say, how can you say that? It's a fact. Why? Because if you believe that you're saved through your good works, if you believe ultimately that you go in because of your deeds, on the outside you may think that, you say, hey, I've I've done it pretty well. But underneath, you know about the iniquity of your holy things. You know it. You know there's something wrong, and you'll be so defensive. You won't be able to take criticism. You'll feel the need to put other people down. Listen, you are spiritually more of a mess. You are spiritually further from the priestly spirit, the spirit of sympathy, of service, of boldness, of humility. You're further from that if you're a moralistic Christian. than if you're an utter non-Christian. Think about it. What is the spirit of a priest? What's the priestly spirit? Well, look at Stephen. First of all, he cared for the poor. The Bible tells us if you think that you're saved by your good works, you will look down your nose at the poor. If you know you're a sinner saved by grace alone, if you know that you go into the Father because you have a perfect high priest, we're told again and again in the Bible, you will pour yourself out in deeds of mercy to the poor. Do you know in Matthew 25, It says on the last day, on judgment day, Jesus is going to come back and he's going to be able to tell the false Christians from the true Christians, you know how he's going to do it? He's going to see the people who poured themselves out for those in need. The people who fed the hungry, the people who cared for the sick, the people who visited those in prison. You say, how could he do that? Because he knows this. If you know that you're saved only through Jesus' grace as a priest. You will be priests too. Priests have their heart bound up with people. Priests are advocates for people. Why? Because they know that the only reason you're before the Father is that Jesus had his heart bound up, and he was before you. A priestly person is somebody who's very, very sympathetic, deeply sympathetic, easy to talk to about your problems. Look at how he treated his murderers. He's worried about them. He says, Father, don't hold this against them. How could he be like that? He has a priestly spirit. A prophet speaks from God to you, but a priest speaks to God for you. And when you see what Jesus has done for you, it turns you into a priest. It means you care about people. Your hearts are bound up with them, just like Jesus' heart is bound up with you. You become an advocate for others just the way he's an advocate for you. You become an easy person to talk to. Listen, I must tell you, fairly regularly over the last six years, I've had people who've come into this community with pretty nasty pasts, pretty checkered pasts, the way they used to say it. And very often I've heard stories of these people trying to share with long-time Christians and having Christians look at them like, how could you have ever done something like that? Priests make you feel big. They don't make you feel small. Priests make you feel that you're for them, that your cause is their cause. That's how Jesus saved us. Priests care for the poor. Priests are deeply sympathetic. Priests are incredibly bold. Why? Because we can walk right in. Those old priests felt pretty good. They were beautiful. Do you know that you're beautiful before God, you'll be as bold as Stephen. You won't be afraid to speak out. You won't be afraid of what other people think. Don't you see? Priests are bold. Priests are sympathetic. Priests care for the poor. Let me give you one more before we close. Priests pray for people. Do you notice how he's praying for the people who are killing him? You know, there's a lot of people in your life that want nothing to do with God, but you can take A lot of you aren't even, you know, we're supposed to pray for our enemies. Stephen's praying for his enemies. You don't even pray for your friends. You don't even pray for your neighbors. What does it mean to be a priest? There's a place in 1 Samuel where Samuel says, far be it from me that I should sin against the Lord by failing to pray for you. Samuel 12, 23, I think, something like that. A priest is somebody who bears people to God on their hearts. Are you a sympathetic person? Does your heart go out to people? Can people tell it? Are you a bold person? Because, hey, if you can stand before the presence of God, you're not afraid of anything else. Are you a praying person? Are you involved in the needs of the city? Hey, let me close this way. George Herbert, in a great poem, puts it like this. He says, with one small smile you gave me the other day, I blasted all the joys about me. and scowling on them as they pined away, I said, come now again and flout me. You know what he's saying? If I know that I have the smile of the Father through my holy high priest Jesus Christ, joys, the other things that I need in life, I say, come on. But if you don't want to come, flout me. You no longer have any power over me. That's exactly why Stephen was able to do what he was doing. The minute that he was being condemned by an earthly court, he looked to heaven and he saw himself being vindicated by the heavenly court. And the verdict up there was more important to him than the verdict down there. Do you see that? The verdict up there was more important than the verdict down there. And because it was more important than the verdict down here, he could face death calmly, he could pray for his enemies, he could forgive people, he could be sympathetic to the end. And if you have trouble with boldness or sympathy, you're not as strong as a priest and you're not as sweet and meek as a priest, it's because you're not looking at who Jesus is and how beautiful you are to God right now, to the degree that you do that. To that degree, you can say to all the joys and all the verdicts and whatever people do to you down here, come and flout me. I don't need you. John Newton wrote a whole hymn on the death of Stephen. Let me close with it. So faithful Stephen, undismayed, the malice of his foes surveyed, the holy joy which filled his breast, a luster on his face impressed. Behold, he said, the world of light is open to my strengthened sight. My glorious Lord appears in view, that Jesus whom he lately slew. With such a friend and witness near, no form of death could make him fear. Now calm midst showers of stones he kneels, and only for his murderers' heals. May we by faith perceive thee thus, dear Savior, ever near to us. Thus sight our peace through life shall keep, and death be feared, no more than sleep. And they who in the Lord confide, those foes assault on every side, cannot be moved or overthrown, for Jesus makes their cause his own. Let's pray. Our Father, we see that the early Christians culture, by valuing human life, by caring for the poor, by opening their hearts to other people with a sympathy and service that no one has ever seen before, by a boldness and a courage before persecution, and it all came because they saw your Son standing at your right hand. Now, Father, we want that too. We feel our hearts not able to go out to people. We also feel a fear in us. We know we're not living like priests, bold and sweet, tough and tender. I pray that you would help us to have the same vision of heaven open that Stephen had, that we might be as bold and as sweet as he and change the world around us. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen.
