Now what I want to do, tomorrow, even though it seems like, it seems like a long course in some ways, but tomorrow is the second last day. Actually, we only have a day and a half. I want to do two things in this next 45 minutes. I want to talk about very practical methods for writing application. Now, what I gave you this morning was those macro strategies, critiquing religion and irreligion, using the three perspectives, behavior, motivation, back to behavior. What I want to do now is I want to spend a little time, and it's kind of a smaller amount of time. Some of you are going to find it very helpful. Some practical how-tos, practical methods, practical issues that will make the application of your sermons more telling. Then I want to get to actually a fairly major issue in application today, which is what I'll call worldview change. Because I now think to do application, you've got to do that. But let's take 15 minutes through Chapter 6, the kind of short chapter. In some ways, it's pretty self-explanatory. In Chapter 5, we laid out broad strategies for doing application. What follows is some more specific methods for actually designing and executing. Here we go. Number one, the discipline of who you talk to. There's a tendency to underestimate just how much your people context shapes the way you prepare your sermons, even read your texts. It's too late after you've studied your text to say, now how am I going to apply this to people? Who am I going to apply it to? You're already reading the text with questions in your mind that come from the people that you are talking to during the week. You get out of any particular text the answers to the questions you're asking it. You only get out of the text what answers the questions you're asking it, and you're not reading without questions in your mind, what are those questions? That's the reason why you can go back and look at a sermon, or a journal, or a study that you made of the text 20 years ago come back, well, it's a lot of you obviously can't do that yet, because 20 years ago you were going goo-goo, ba-ba. But anyway, some of the rest of you know that you come back later on and it's amazing how different the study is. It's not because necessarily you're older, wiser, or you understand exegesis more. It's just you have some different questions in your mind as you read the text. And therefore, as I put down here, look at the third paragraph. Therefore, there's a vicious cycle in preaching. Now, this is very important to have in mind. Even, you might want to write something in the margins to visibly show the cycle I'm about to tell you. You'll tend to preach to the people you listen to during the week. Why? They're the people you're most engaged with, they fill your mind with their questions, and it acts as something of a grid as you read the Bible. The issues will be on your mind, their issues will be on your mind as you read, and you'll especially notice biblical truth that speaks to them. Thus, your sermons will tend to aim at the people who you already have most on your heart. They, then, will bring the people that are most interested and satisfied by your preaching, they will come and bring others like themselves. Because they're coming, you will meet more of them, and speak more to them, and thus semi-consciously tell your sermons more to them. This is what I mean by a cycle, a vicious cycle. The more you listen to them, the more they pull the sermon toward them. You don't even know you're doing it. The more you direct the sermon to them, the more they come to church, the more they come to church, the more you listen to them. Now, at the very worst, First, evangelical preachers read and engage other evangelical preachers. In other words, if all you do is read other evangelical writers, they read, you read them, and the next thing you know, you're sort of answering their questions in your sermon. Like, for example, when you're in seminary, there's a tendency for you to study your text and immediately think of the issues that you're talking with your seminary buddies over lunch. And so, actually, the sermons are almost... Oh, no, this is overstating. terribly interesting to anybody who's not a seminarian. I mean, this is a fairly obvious problem. When you come out of seminary, very often your sermons aren't very good. It's not just, I mean, everybody knows that, right? It's not just because you're inexperienced, that's part of it. To some degree, it's because you've just been immersed with other people thinking about issues that nobody else in the world is thinking about. And when you read the text, those are the things that sort of jump out at you. The stuff that you were talking to

They never think, I wish my non-Christian neighbor could be here to hear this. Then there is no abstract academic way to preach relevant, applicatory sermons, they will arise from the people you listen to. If you spend most of your time reading instead of being out with people, you'll apply the Bible text to the authors of the books you read. If you spend most of your time in Christian meetings or an evangelical sub-culture, your sermons will apply the Bible text to the needs of the evangelical community. The only way out of this is to deliberately diversify your people context. In other words, here's how you draw the cycle. Who you talk to during the week, your people kind of affects who you are talking to in your sermon. Who you're talking to in your sermon affects who gets brought to hear you, who is invited to come hear you, who wants to come hear you. Who you talk to determines who you're addressing, who you're addressing determines who's being brought to church and who's being brought to church to a great degree determines who you're talking to. Because they come to church and then they want to see you when you end up talking to them. Which means if I talk to non-Christians during the week, lots of non-Christians, when I sit down to study the Bible, I'll see things that I should have thought of saying to them. And so what I'll do is, when I'm talking to non-Christians, then as I study the text, I'll think of ways in which the text speaks to them. I'll bring that out in the sermon, and the Christian who's there says, boy, I wish my non-Christian friend would have been here to hear this. And then, they'll bring them. And then because they're bringing them,

my whole life, is I discovered that. It does mean, to some degree, you can be deliberate. It means, to some degree, often preaching to people who really, truly, truly aren't there.

But, you see, the average Christian comes, even the Christian who loves your preaching, will just know that you can't, we'll explain some of the ways in which that happens. There's all sorts of ways in which you can really telegraph that you don't, you're not talking to non-Christians. For example, if you just say,

God the wrath God we deserve he took it now if you don't add now I know a lot of you feel that's outrageous the idea of a wrathful God is outrageous punishing his own son is outrageous if you don't say that if you assume everybody out there will just you know that of course you understand it if you don't say that the person who's out there who does find it outrageous feels disrespected basically or feels like an idiot or feels like your feels like a complete fish out of water? You mean all of you around here believe that? Holy smoke. If you're just certain and say, I know, some of you think that is outrageous, but I beg you to consider this, and as soon as you say that, they're in. They're in. Now what if there's really nobody out there that thinks it's outrageous? What if there's nobody out there that thinks it's outrageous that the wrath of God, that God is the God of wrath? Let's just say there's just a sensitive Christian sitting there, and they hear you say, I know you think it's outrageous, Do you realize the alternative? Do you realize what that means? Do you see this or do you see that? Do the Christian sit there and say, gee, I wish my neighbor, my neighbor would really need it. I should have said that to my neighbor when she was asking me about Christianity. She would like a sermon like this and if she keeps hearing this from you, she's going to actually bring her friend. If you preach as if they're there, they'll be there. If you preach as if they're not there, they'll never be there and if you wait for them to be brought until you start preaching to them, you'll wait until hell freezes over, okay? Top of page 42, Now, how do you do that? And there's two ways. Here's the easy approach. The easiest way to make sure that you're thinking about the concerns of non-Christians so that as you study the text, you'll naturally expound the text in a way that addresses some of those concerns. The easiest way is to make sure you read lots of material by people who differ wildly from you in their theology. Now, the fastest way to do this is not to read books, but magazines. For example, now here's what I do, that you should do this, it might really not work at all in Atlanta or something like that. But for happily middle-class, liberal, New Age non-Christians, you know, Bobos. You know what Bobos are? Bourgeois Bohemians. Have you heard about that? Well, just sort of naturally, happily, vaguely New Age, liberal, skeptical non-Christians. I read the Utne Reader. for angry, liberal, old-fashioned, atheist, religion-hating, you know, semi-Marxist people, I read The Nation. For sophisticated, extremely cynical, upscale, liberal non-Christians, I read The New Yorker. For, you know, sort of kind of nose-ring, cutting-edge, genics, liberal culture, I read Wired, but I'm sure there's others. But that's how you do that, frankly, is find magazines that reflect the views of people that your friends, your Christian members could be bringing, friends, and read them. And when you read these regularly, you find yourself interacting with them, arguing with the articles, and that ends up coming into your preaching. The other approach is a lot harder. You just have to make sure that you don't spend so much time with Christians. And I don't know how you do. As a pastor, that's very hard. You have to be very careful with your appointment schedule. You have to be creative with your community and neighborhood involvement. You just have to make sure you're spending time with people of a variety of spiritual conditions. If you're only always spending time with your leaders, I mean, I know some years ago there was a lot of articles on if you want to be a sharp-growing pastor of a fast-growing church, you have to be careful about not letting yourself spend time with too many messed-up people. Have you ever seen any of that? you have to spend time with leaders, move with the movers. Well, after a while, your sermons will get stupid.

You've got to spend time with a variety of people, and if as the church gets bigger, you've got to spend less and less time with people and more and more time with leaders and meetings, which is what happens, I know that, at least the people that you are seeing, you better make sure that you vary, that you're careful that your diet is a balanced diet. it. Who you're seeing is a variety of Christians and non-Christians and weak Christians and messed up people and together people. How do you do that? Well, I don't know. That's another course. The second thing is discipline who you picture. You notice my first method, my methodological point was discipline who you spend time with because they will in many ways affect the application of the preaching almost automatically. Secondly, however, if you really want some ideas for how to do better application, while you're exegeting the text, think of lists of different kinds of people. At the very, very least, here's a quick list, at the very least ask yourself, what does this text say to mature Christians, non-Christians, or new slash immature Christians? What does this text say to a mature solid Christian, to a non-Christian to a kind of borderline person? I always do that. In fact, if any of you get the tapes, it's fairly regularly that I end that way. I'll say, in conclusion, if you're a solid Christian, you've been a Christian a long time, this is what you need to remember, take away from this. If you're not sure you're a Christian or if you know you're not a Christian, here's what I'd like you to remember. And if, you know, in other words, very often that's how I end every sermon. I mean, not very often, every sermon. way. You can't very often end every sermon that way, can you? It's a contradiction. Okay. All right. Another way, you know, take the Mark 4, the four people in Mark 4. Take the hard-hearted and the, you know, take the four soils. Conscious skeptics, nominal Christians whose commitment is extremely shallow, Christians who are divided in their loyalties and messed up in their priorities, and mature committed Christians. Of course, that's obviously one reading of the parable. you may not agree with it, but anyway, you know what I'm saying. In other words, you take those categories and ask. And here's some longer lists. So turn on over to page 44. Here's some more practical methodological hints on writing application. When I say here use both running and collected application, if you are a typical Puritan preacher and you do all that sort of doctrine exegesis and doctrine exegesis, and they say now let's turn to practical application, If you take all the application and put it at the end, you might lose people's attention. When you get personal and practical and real concrete, it sort of wakes them up. It's almost like smelling salts. They're sitting there going like this, and suddenly the application, where it comes by, and it's like the salts go by the nose and they wake up. And therefore, if you can, don't wait. I do believe you should collect application near the end and say, do with this. Certainly that's the place to collect it and draw it all together. But don't be afraid. Don't be too... I have found a pretty good number of people that were so influenced by that idea of doing doctrine than the application. I was to a certain degree, so maybe I'm talking to myself, but I had to get out of that. Use running in, collect an application. Number two. And number three. I would have skipped this, but Ed Clowney keeps on telling me how, telling us all how impressed he is with this, and that is that I do like to kind of, you know, you don't have to do this in black congregations, by the way. White congregations, people sit there and wait for, you know, it's a monologue, and I'm saying, make it a dialogue. And the way you make it a dialogue is you ask questions and you say, now I know what you're thinking.

Create a dialogue. In black congregations, the dialogue is happening. I mean, they're They're making noises to tell you what they're thinking. They do respond to you. And if you're not used to preaching there, that's another whole skill set. But I'm suggesting in your typical white middle class congregation where the people are just there like bumps on a log, that one of the things you can do to get them involved is ask direct questions. I put down here under number two. Don't say, many people twist the truth or tell half-truths to reach their own ends. Instead say, how many of you know this past week you've twisted the truth or omitted part of the truth in order to look good. In other words, turn it into a question. You were going to say it anyway. Why not turn it into a question? Look him in the eye. They all get quiet. Another approach is to anticipate objections. Extremely important. I guess I wouldn't have thought of it as all that important, but Ed Clowney always tells me how impressed he was. Evidently, you can sort of see, I guess you can see people, when I would do that get engaged, right? So yeah, that was interesting. But it's like you can say, now some of you are likely saying, yes, that's great for you, but you don't have my husband.

Well, no, I don't. On the other hand, here's a situation which was a lot worse than what you're facing and yet, you see, in other words, you know what they're going to say. Now that again, that comes from who you're spending time with. That comes from who you're spending time with. If you're spending time with enough people that you hear typical objections and difficulties and problems that get thrown to you, then when you are addressing them, you're going to engage them. So anticipate objections and questions. Go down over to page 45. Go to number 5. This is also part of what I mean by turning it into a dialogue. Besides asking questions, besides anticipating objections, Exceptions. Besides providing tests that will say, okay, maybe you don't think this is true of you, but let me give you a couple of little tests, ways of testing yourself. This is ways of making people feel like you're in a dialogue with them. Number five, don't pass by the pliable moment. I've often found that there are points in a sermon when suddenly, to your surprise, you realize you got them. It's very often not where you planned to get them or where you wanted to get them. I still do it. When I was a younger preacher, I really made a great mistake. Very often my sermon would climax about 10 minutes in.

And what I mean by climax is that the people were quiet and you realized you'd said something just right and you could hear a pin drop. But that's not the way the outline... My sermon climaxes in another 15 minutes. So you just go right on by and you expect to build to something crescendo and you get there

antsy and looking at their watch and, you know, the sermon didn't go the way you planned. What I mean by that is whenever you get, when it's clear the Holy Spirit is working in their lives, instead of just rushing on to your next point, you know, people are experiencing the truth. It's a pliable moment. Don't let it go past too quickly. Don't be so tied to your outline or notes that you fail to take time to drive home the truth directly and specifically. In the summer, at least once, I had a kind of two-part sermon on Jesus being the final temple. And the first part was more for non-Christians. And the first was more like, why do we need a temple? The whole idea of a temple sounds kind of hocus-pocus. And the second part was more talking to Christians about Jesus being the final temple and worship. The first part was more to non-Christians on Jesus saying, I'm the temple means you can really, there really is a way of not just having a general relationship with God but really having a personal relationship with God. And the sermon climaxed, I mean I could just tell a climax there and what I ended up doing was pretty much dropping the second point. And what I did was, again this is probably one advantage to A, having done this a long time, having a little more confidence, and it's a little more, a little less fear. I just made up application. In other words, when I realized it climaxed, I brought it to Christ rather quickly and made application and just stared at people and made the sermon a little shorter, a little shorter. I don't think I would have had the guts to do that years ago. But that's what I mean by this idea, that sometimes you get to the pliable moment, you realize the sermon has crescendoed. It wasn't really in line with what you had written. And so I said, all right, you know, this is where God's taking people. Or if you get there, milk it, and then go on and see whether or not there isn't another crescendo. There might be another one. But if it doesn't look like it's happening, then shut it down. Do you have the flexibility to do that? I hope you do. I couldn't have done it in the first few years. A couple other quickies. Number six and number seven, they go together. Let the text control you rather than your temperament. All of us tend, by temperament, to either be more forceful than we're affectionate or more affectionate than we're forceful. Some of us tend to be nice, sweet. We love to talk about how Jesus loves you, and we don't like to talk about there is such a thing as hell, there is a last judgment. Others of us love to talk about the truth, be very authoritative, say, this is the truth, you can't mess with God, your sins will find you out, God is not mocked, you will reap what you sow, There are certain texts that resonate with you temperamentally and other texts that are there that don't. It takes a great deal, I think, of spiritual repentance and growth for you to grow away, to sort of develop that part of your temperament that isn't there naturally without the Holy Spirit's help. And I just think that from what I can tell, the great preachers have this combination of forcefulness and affection. They weep as they're beating you to death. I'm sorry to have to do this. Anyway, well, yeah, in a way. And so I said, the last line on page 45 is, let the biblical text control you, not your temperament. If you're always admonishing and warning or always encouraging and comforting, you see, after a while it's going to get old and the people aren't going to grow. Really. So watch out. Be careful that you're not always got a certain tone. Be careful. text control you. If the text is a comforting text and you tend to be a warner, well, go with the text. Now, please turn over to chapter eight. Yeah, you say, what? Well, if any of you are adding it up, it's half past Wednesday. It's actually three quarters past Wednesday. It's quarter of Thursday. And we're only halfway through the syllabus, so obviously I'm not going to be taking you through it. But I would like you to turn to page 68. And even if I don't finish this tonight, I can do it I would like to talk to you about an aspect of application that you're probably not thinking about as application, but it is. And I'm going to call it worldview change. I've gotten convinced over the last couple of years that it's actually a fairly important part of what I'm doing myself in New York. And I know that New York is odd. I remember at the end of the 60s, I saw Midnight Cowboy. By the way, here's an interesting cultural, little piece of cultural analysis. Remember Midnight Cowboy? I don't mean, some of you obviously don't, but Midnight Cowboy, the movie, Dustin Hoffman, John Voight, about New York, about male prostitute. Anyway, when it came out in the late 60s, it was X-rated. And when it was reissued, I remember in 1980, it was R-rated. And last time I looked in the video, it was PG-13. There's something interesting going on. It's the same movie, by the way. Nobody's touched it. But I do remember when I saw it, I was a teenager living in Allentown, Pennsylvania, and I saw it in the late 60s, and I said, wow, only in New York City. I mean, there was a bunch of people all smoking pot and having sex and writhing around under revolving colored lights down in Greenwich Village, and I said, wow, that is the weirdest thing. doing drugs and all that, I said, only in New York City, that's never gonna happen there, of course, five years later it was happening everywhere, there's some things about New York and L.A that never work out, themselves out into the rest of the culture because they're so big and they're just unusual, and there's other things that happen in New York and L.A that within 10 years, everybody's doing it, and you never know what they are, so I have to be very careful, but the one thing, I have to be very careful to say, what I'm doing is, and what I'm experiencing will be helpful for the rest of you because it's coming. I'm very, very reticent to say that, because I don't know what things won't spread, what things will. But the one thing I do think is you're going to have to realize that increasingly people are out there that aren't, it's not just they're not Christians. I mean, I feel like my in-laws, my in-laws who are, one of whom is dead now, one is in their late 70s, my in-laws who were kind of really non-Christian people, and my parents who are evangelical Christians, they were not really that different. I have to tell you, they both had roughly the same worldview. I mean, they were not that different in their values, the way they thought of things, they wouldn't have been that different about how they assessed... Do you know what I'm saying? One was the set of, you know, evangelical Christians, the other one, not at all, and yet, they really weren't that different in the way they saw things. Today, increasingly, the people who are not Christians really have a whole different worldview, whole different view of human nature, whole different view of reality, And what scares me is that when we preach, we are really preaching just... We're not thinking about those alternative worldviews. And therefore, increasingly, I think you have to do what we would call presuppositional apologetics in our preaching. Or it's not going to be enough to just assume that there's some people out there who don't believe and might be having sex. And so I want to address those people who are sexually active and address people who don't believe. You're really going to have to think more fundamentally than that. I want to give you a couple of ideas about how that works. Actually, I should take a look at page 69, not 68. I would like to talk to you, at least for a while now, about how to enter and change a worldview. I've come more and more to see that you have to kind of, you're going to have to be sprinkling apologetics, I think, into your sermons, and not the old-fashioned way, which was, here's the evidence for the resurrection. resurrection. To be honest with you, and here I'm showing my hands, the old classical evidentialist approach or the proofs of God, they don't fit into a sermon to preaching at all. They just don't fit. As soon as you try to do those things in a sermon and you're into a lecture and everybody's going ho-hum. But I have to tell you that presuppositional apologetics fits in wonderfully with preaching. I think everybody knows what I mean by when I say traditional apologetics like here, how do we know the tomb was empty on Easter Sunday morning? And the disciples couldn't have moved it because of these reasons, and the enemies couldn't have moved it because of these reasons. You see what I'm saying? I think you all know that stuff. That's not an easy thing to just sort of sprinkle into your preaching, especially if you're not preaching it from Luke 24 or Matthew 28 or something. Whereas presuppositional apologetics is an approach that actually takes a person's basic view of the world and shows the inconsistency of it. Now here I'll show me let me just get right to it quick. How do you enter and change your worldview? By the way I've already told you something about it. The way you actually deconstruct the non-christian worldviews of the people that are out there is you have to enter and then challenge. If you don't enter, if you just blast it they're not even going to listen to you. They're not it's not gonna be persuasive at all. if you enter and you don't challenge it, you're not going to change them either. Do you see the difference? In other words, if I want to move this rock because I'm building a road and I just sort of stick the dynamite on the outside and I light it and I run away, it'll just shear off a little piece of the outside. I have to drill a hole, deep, deep, deep, deep. But if all I ever do is drill, I just drill, drill, drill, drill, drill, drill, drill, I'm never going to get my highway going either. If I just adapt to a worldview, if I just tell them the things if I just sympathize with them and use their language, if I just enter the worldview and I never challenge it, they're not going to get converted, they're actually going to hear the things I say still in terms of their own worldview, they're going to screen it out, they're just not going to get it. On the other hand, if I just stay on the outside and blast it, you hedonistic, secular, therapized, individualistic, selfish people, this whole culture is just going to hell, and good riddance to it, if you just blast it from the outside, The key is to enter the worldview, but then challenge it. Here's what I mean. Gaining plausibility. The first way you enter the worldview is that receptors will tune out your message unless the communicator gets inside the receptor's range of tolerance. They're not going to listen to you unless you learn how to speak their language, is what I mean. And one of the ways you do this is by gaining plausibility. Gaining plausibility means nobody wants to believe this, but when a visitor sits down, when you preach a sermon to somebody for the very first time, you want them to be listening to your logic and following your illustrations, and they are spending the first five to ten minutes deciding whether they like you. Don't you remember that? You know that's what they're doing? They're out there deciding whether they're going to come with you, and they're looking at all kinds of things, and here's what they're looking at. One of the things is if you make them work too hard They're going to just tune you out. If you don't know anything about computers, and you start to pick up a book on how to use your computer, and it's just using all sorts of language that you don't understand, it's exhausting, because the writer of the computer book is saying, you come into my frame of reference, and it's very exhausting. The writer of the computer book has not come into your frame of reference, it's not simple enough for a first-time user, and you just put the book down and you say, I'm just going to try it, right? Isn't that what you do? You read the directions and you say, I can't get it, put them down and you try to sort of work it through. You have to speak their language, you do have to learn their terms, you do have to know what they mean, you do have to be sensitive to what words, in your worldview there is no problem with it, but in their worldview it is a bad word, you don't say it, you don't use it, you just have to learn that, you learn it by reading and talking to them, don't forget that, okay? Secondly, you gain plausibility with the non-verbal communication, and this is horrible, nobody wants to hear this, the sing-song ministerial voice, which goes fine, for example, I think, in Wales and Scotland, sounds terrible in England. I may be wrong. I hear a couple of you with accents, though. You know what I mean? Have you ever noticed that the English... I've always found that John Stott, Dick Lucas, the English preachers tend to speak in more conversational language. But the Scottish preachers and the Welsh preachers and the Irish preachers have a rhetorical grand style. Now, maybe that's fine in the Celtic tradition where the Anglo-Saxons just don't like raising their voices. I don't know what it is. those sorts of things. I really do think you do. In my situation I have found that when a new guy comes to town and new guy comes to Redeemer and starts to preach and sort of falls into that kind of sing-song ministerial language, they get nasty notes in the offering plate saying this person sounds like a politician or a salesman. And they are taken aback and I say well every culture has all this nonverbal communication it's very important to people and therefore you do

These are difficult issues, for example, one of the things that is true of post-modern society is it's more ironic. If you're from the Midwest or the South, America, if you're here in America and you're from the Midwest or the South, you may just be what people on the west coast and the northeast consider awfully straight-laced and sincere. Now, this is not a matter of right and wrong, this is not a matter of right and wrong, to some degree the irony is bad, you know, post-modern culture is too ironic,

Jedediah Purdy wrote a book. Have you heard of that book? For Common Things. That's right. In which he talks about the danger of the sort of extreme irony of the postmodern culture, making fun of everything, cynical about everything. And yet I can't completely ignore the fact that if people from the South and the Midwest come across on the West Coast and in the Northeast as pompous or just sort of painfully sincere, bit of self-deprecating humor? Where's a little bit of ironic detachment? The people in New York immediately can tell the difference. They immediately notice if that's missing, and they just shut it down. Maybe you don't want to hear that kind of thing, but I think if you're going to change worldviews, back when America was really not pluralistic but pretty homogeneous in its kind of worldview and its understanding of things, there's always been sort of differences between North and South, but now the differences are huge. So one of the things, to enter a worldview, you have to gain plausibility by speaking the using the right non-verbal communication. That's logos, pathos, and ethos, of course. That's not big news to a lot of you. But now secondly, and this is a little bit more, hopefully the first part is a little discouraging, because there's no way to learn how to enter a worldview gaining plausibility without getting burned, without sort of being told, you know, that was stupid, that was offensive, that made people unhappy. And at first you say, why are they getting so bent out of shape about this? But every culture's got its distinctives. But here's the second thing. To enter a worldview means to know it, to show sympathy for it, and to identify the parts of it that you can affirm as a Christian. Now, I know at this point I'm opening up all kinds of philosophical. I'm speaking as a practitioner. I'm opening up a number of philosophical issues. I'm going to just tell you what I think is... I'm speaking in some ways my language here. When I say, for example, find the things in their worldview, that are right, and that you can affirm. I'm not trying to get into the whole issue of does the unbeliever have true knowledge or not? I think I'm going to say something that is not controversial. You have to know the worldview, you have to have real sympathy for the worldview, and you have to find some things that they say in their worldview that, by common grace, you can affirm, and then you use it on them. And here's what I mean, gaining credibility, look at this. First of all, you have to know the worldview. This means if you are really going to enter in

And persuade them of their error, you have to prove to them that you understand their worldview extremely well. It means you have to quote their lyrics, you have to know their music, you have to watch their TV shows, unfortunately, sometimes, occasionally, know their authors and their pundits and their thinkers well who represent that worldview. You have to use illustrations that resonate to the people. It means, I already mentioned this, it means you never make orthodox Christian statements and just go on without showing you know how outrageous, difficult, or troubling those statements are to the people and that worldview. a knowledge of it, and secondly, you show some sympathy for it. One of the things I hear evangelical pastors do all the time is they quickly dismiss the objections. I mean, sometimes evangelical ministers will raise objections that non-Christians have, and they just dismiss them. There's a sort of sneer. Well, you know, some people say things like this, but we know. I always sit there and say, boy, if there's somebody in that service that really feels that's why I can't be a Christian, to feel dismissed like that, they're never going to come back. be some sympathy. We fail to do this. We fail to show sympathy to the worldview by not posing objections of the worldview in their most credible way. See, it's very, very lazy to put up the objections to Christianity in a way that are very, very easy to knock down. That's lazy. If we set up a straw man, easily knock it down. It won't be convincing to the people who are out there who have that position. We also fail, number two, by not expressing real sympathy and affirming the objections wherever you can. In other words, we can't talk like this, well, this is just the way it is. And there's an awful lot of evangelical preaching that works like that. Basically, the attitude of the preacher, this is just the way it is. Have you ever seen, uh, Little Shop of Horrors? You ever seen that unbelievably funny, the funniest thing that's ever been put on film, in about five minutes, it's, uh, it's Steve Martin singing Be a Dentist. You ever seen that? If you haven't seen that, you have to go find It's the funniest thing that's ever been put into on film. He's a sadist who's a dentist. That's the whole point. That's what's so funny about it. And the way he does it when he sees that there's a cavity down there, he says, well, let's get at that. Wham! And it shows he has no concern. All I'm going to do is get the cavity out. And an awful lot of people don't preach as if the things they're saying

are very, very, very painful for them to hear. They hate it, or they're unhappy with it, or that bothers them. And so you've got to show some sensitivity. That's all. Sympathy, knowledge of the worldview. But now, the most important way to enter a worldview is to move from the right known thing to the right unknown thing. Now, what do I mean by that? Be careful. I don't want you to think that I'm saying, if, let's just say, for example, loves the idea of grace and forgiveness. They love this idea. Forgiveness, grace, acceptance, tolerance, right? I know that their understanding of grace and the Christian understanding of grace are fairly different. And yet there's another way in which you could say that there's something in what they teach that you can affirm. Something that they believe, I mean, that you could affirm. You go for that and then you move from what they already believe and you show them the line between that and the gospel. And here's how I do it. Now look, here's how you should do it. Part of any culture's belief system is right. By common grace and common revelation, there are some convictions or values that are very similar to those of the Christian worldview. So I'm being careful. I don't want to get into the old debate about mixed articles and whether unbeliever has true knowledge and so on. Romans 1 tells us everybody knows the true God down deep, and that means this. This is all I'm trying to say. person is living as if the biblical God exists. They can't avoid that. Everybody's living as if the biblical God exists because, turn over to page 70, at some deep level they know it. So every culture will admit and acknowledge something, some part of God's truth. Can you accept what I'm saying even if you realize I'm not trying to get into the issue about true knowledge and mixed articles and stuff like that? Just simply that everybody basically knows that they're a refugee from God, and at some level they can't escape that knowledge. So they're all living as if God's there. They just want to acknowledge Him. That's what I think the Romans want to say. But then number one. Number two. You find those truths that they hold in common with the Bible and affirm them. And here's the way to do it. You cite authorities they trust and then show how, if anything, the Bible asserts those truths actually in a more vivid and more rich and more full way than they do. You don't start by challenging the worldview. You're entering it. You're entering it by coming in, by agreeing, by affirming parts of it, by showing them you understand their objections more than they do, by showing them that you can affirm part of it. That's all entering. You're getting in, you're drilling, drilling, drilling, drilling, so that when the explosion goes off, it's going to take the rock out. Let me give you a quick example. If you're talking to secular kids about sex ethics, where do you start? You start by showing the Bible's lack of prudishness. You start by an open discussion of the magnificence of sexuality. sexuality, you might want to go to Tremper Longman's exposition of the Song of Solomon in Intimate Allies, you know, the book he did with Dan Allender. And Tremper goes to some of the sexual imagery of Song of Solomon. And what you can do with kids is you can out-frank them. That's not quite the same as out-flanking them. You out-frank them. So look, the Bible is just reveling in sexual love. So what you do is you're starting with secular kids by showing the magnificence of sexuality in the Bible. And then you can turn around and challenge their flippancy and licentiousness. But you're entering the worldview. You outdo them. However, what if you're talking to a group of Muslims or Hindus about sex? Don't start that way. See, people from traditional worldviews that come to America are just appalled at the immorality of America. They're just appalled by the licentiousness and the permissiveness. They're appalled by it. If you're going to talk to Muslims and Hindus, don't start with that. Now, are you being manipulative? No. That's not the thing I'm going to try to affirm. Oh yeah, when they're both in the audience? Well, if they're both in the audience, they're probably not that different. If you're looking at, for example, young kids, young, say, Pakistani, Bengali kids who are in the youth group, if they're speaking English, then they've been Americanized, and you can treat them as Americans. Americans. There's no doubt that if I have people coming of the first generation, the older generation, if I knew I have significant numbers of them, I'm going to have to look toward them. I will. But you know what? I don't know. I'm not sure that sometimes these groups mix that much, as you might think. Anyway, then lastly, I got to do this quickly, turn over to page 71. So now, how do you challenge the worldview? Number one, after you've identified the commonalities, number two, page 71, you destabilize. Now what I mean by destabilizing is you show the inadequacy or the incompatibility of their existing commitments which you've affirmed. You like the idea of grace? So do I. You like the idea of the magnificence of sexuality? So do I. And you're against injustice? And you're against the fact that the strong are oppressing the weak in this world? Well, I'm a Christian and the Bible also is committed to that. Do you see what I'm saying? You find that common commitment that they have that you can affirm from the Bible, and you've identified that commitment, and you've affirmed it, you destabilize by showing them the inadequacy or incompatibility of the existing commitments for their principles. The fundamental way to arouse interest in the gospel is to show a person the tension between the right things that they know to be true denial of the biblical Christian God. And then thirdly, you have to re-stabilize with Christ. You've de-stabilized, now you have to re-stabilize, re-establish the equilibrium. To re-stabilize, you have to do two things. First, you provide a new view of God, the biblical one, that is true to their commitment, and that provides a balance and a basis for them. And secondly, you have to anticipate the cost that they are going to be thinking about that will happen if they change. If you're putting in front of these people, you're going to have to change of things. You restabilize not only by saying, here's the biblical view of God that will give you a basis for that commitment that we both agree is so important. And though there will be a cost for you making a change to this biblical view of God, there is a commensurate reward, a more than commensurate reward. And that means you identify the commitment, you destabilize, and you restabilize. Here's a quick example, real quick, but then I want to show you some others. Christian preaching is not only intellectually destabilizing, but emotionally destabilizing. That's the reason why you have to not only show how the biblical view of God gives them an intellectual integrity, but also how Jesus Christ will be rewarding if they're willing to come after him. So, for example, let's just say I'm preaching to some liberal social activists, and I show them their skepticism about God, this is here, leaves them without a basis for their moral outrage. That's a great presuppositional way. to try to deal with liberal social activists. I say, look, I'm against injustice too, but you have no basis for your moral outrage. If you tell them that, the first thing they're going to do is not, oh, that's interesting. What they're going to say is, boy, that's intriguing, but if I would ever even go in the direction of Christianity, all my friends will laugh at me. They have other liberal friends who'll think they're nuts if they go religious. They have nearly complete freedom to do what they want sexually. And they're suddenly adding this up. See, they're being personal. being totally intellectual, these little intellectual units that are out there analyzing everything you're saying. Oh no. In the beginning, they're trying to figure out whether they like you. At the end, they're trying to say, man, this is convincing, but if I were to go in that direction, I'd have to stop sleeping with my girlfriend and all my friends would think I'd gone religious. And you really need to know them well enough to actually address that. Now, let me give you an example or two. Is that alright to show you? I can't finish them today. Let me give you a couple of examples. How would I try to talk to people who don't even know there's a God? thing about New York is I have a lot of people in services every week like that, but they don't even know there's a God. Let me show you how this works. This is a quote. It starts at the bottom of page 71. I'll only read you part of it. From Annie Dillard, Pilgrim at Tinker Creek. If she's a Christian, is a mighty waffly one. So, I mean, she's no evangelical Christian, but she did win a Pulitzer Prize for this book. And if you quote this book, in a certain sense, you're entering the worldview. You're entering the worldview of the skeptical, secular person. But don't turn Let me read you a section and show you how you could use this in a sermon. Pilgrim of Tinker Creek, she lived by a creek in Virginia and just observed nature and thought as an artist, she was going to write about nature and she was going to conform her life to nature. You know, she was my age, which means she was a very naive, flower-childy person in the 60s. And she said, I'm going to go out, I'm going to watch nature. And she came to realize that nature is red in tooth and claw. She saw all this violence and all this. created a crisis for her. Look at the middle of the first paragraph on page 72. Evolution loves death more than it loves you or me or anyone. I had thought to live by the side of the creek in order to shape my life to its free flow, but I seem to have reached a point where I must draw the line. I must part ways with the only world I know. Look, cock robin may die the most gruesome of slow deaths and nature is no less pleased. Look, he says, the sun comes up, the creek rolls on, the survivors still sing, but I cannot feel that way about your death, nor you about mine, nor either of us about the robins. We value the individual supremely, and nature values him not a whit. It looks as though I might have to reject this creek life, unless I want to be utterly brutalized. And so it all came to a head right here. She says, either this world, my mother, is a monster, or I am a freak. Consider the former. The world is a monster. There's not a people in the world that behaves as badly, there's not a person in the world, or no, people, that behaves as badly as a praying mantis. Ah, but wait, you say, there is no right or wrong in nature. Right and wrong is a human concept. Precisely. We are moral creatures in a universe that's running on chance and death, careening blindly from nowhere to nowhere, which somehow produces wonderful us. This world runs on chance and death and power, but I cherish life and the rights of the weak versus the strong. So I crawled by chance out of a sea of amino acids, and now I must whirl around and shake my fist at that sea and cry, shame. We little blobs of soft tissue crawling around on this one planet's skin are right, and the whole universe is wrong. So that's the one possibility. The world's a monster. Or consider the alternative. Nature is just fine. Our feelings are frequently amiss. The frog that the giant water bug sucked... By the way, she saw a giant water bug come on top of a frog and suck the brain, in fact, just suck it dry. And she watched the frog kind of collapse until there was nothing left but like, just like, a frog suit. And she just never got over it. She says, The frog that the giant water bug sucked had a rush of feeling for a second before its brain turned to broth. I, however, have been sapped by various strong feelings about the incident daily for years. All right then. It's our emotions and our values that are amiss. We are freaks. The world is fine. line. Let us all go have lobotomies to restore us to a natural state. We can leave the library then, go back to the creek, lobotomize, and live on its bank as untroubled as any muskrat or reed. You first. Now, let me show you what she's doing. I don't believe she's, she doesn't go all the way because I don't know whether she's a Christian or not, but here's how you use this. Even using this in a sermon, by the way, shows entry. Do you understand? Plausibility, credibility, all sorts And all sorts of things. Here is the entry-point, though. A belief... You are assuming when you talk to the other world, it is the belief that it is wrong for strong individuals or groups to oppress the weaker ones. It is wrong for strong people to oppress the weak people, it is wrong for strong nations to oppress the weak nations. And if you talk to your typical, liberal, skeptical person, he says, that is right, but here is the problem now. In other words, we all know it is utterly natural in this world for the strong to eat the weak, that is how evolution works, the survival of the fittest. We also believe that oppression is wrong, for the strong to eat the weak, yet it is deeply wrong when strong human beings or human groups oppress the weak. Now, here is the challenge. If nature is all there is, why would it be wrong for strong humans to trample the weak ones? How could we possibly know that nature is abnormal? You realize how stupid it is to say, How could we know that nature is abnormal? So that is what she is saying. She says the word nature is the word natural. She says, wait a minute, how could nature be unnatural? She says, how could nature be abnormal unless there is some standard a supernatural standard it would have to be, that tells us so? If your premise that there's no supernature or God leads you to a conclusion that you know is not right, that my sense that there's a moral injustice is an illusion, why not change the premise? By the way, that's presuppositional apologetics. See, they know that it's wrong for the strong to eat the weak. If there is no God, or if there's no supernatural, there is no reason to say, hey, if it's absolutely natural for the strong to eat the weak, how would I know that it's wrong for strong nations to eat weak nations? So if your premise that there is no God leads you to the conclusion you know isn't true, and that is that my sense of injustice is a total illusion, then you should change the premise. The Bible makes sense of this. If there is no God, there'd be no way to know nature is abnormal. If there was no fall, there'd be no way to explain why God would make a world like this. But the Bible tells us the world was created, yet fallen? If you say nature is full of violence, but we shouldn't live that way, you're assuming and believing and living as if the biblical God exists, but you're not honest enough to live as if he is there, him. You're being a hypocrite. In other words, you're plagiarist. You're living as if there is a God, and yet you will not acknowledge where you got that. And by the way, the reason Annie Dillard is not able to make a Christian proclamation is she doesn't believe in the fall. She goes on here and says, I can't see how any God could create a world like this, and she just doesn't believe in the fall at all. So what you do is that. Now what did And what did I just do? I entered, I challenged I challenged very hard but not until I entered to some degree you have to prove that you believe that injustice is wrong by not just preaching kind of conservative Republican line all the time you have to prove that you do believe that there is injustice in the world and the rich should not oppress the poor and so forth otherwise they wont believe you and you have to

injustices out there in the world. And then once you get in there, you can blow it up. You can explode it. Let me give you two others, and then we're going to have to wait till tomorrow. How do you preach the doctrine of judgment? See, it's not going to be good enough to say, the text tells me that God is a judge, and on the last day is going to judge all people according to what they have done, and like it or lump it. I don't think that'll work.

idea of a God who is going to judge people on the last day and punish people. Some of you say, I just can't believe in a God like that. I say, this text teaches that there is a God like that, but I want to spend some time with you. Because then after that, we'll go on and talk about, all right, since there is a God like that, what does that mean for our lives? But first of all, let's spend some time on this. Now, there's a couple of ways of doing this. One is Arthur Miller. By the way, have you ever seen, this is a fascinating passage out of his play, after the fall? Arthur Miller, the character in the play after the fall, says this at one point. He says, for years I looked at life like a case at law. It was a series of proofs. When you're young, you prove how brave you are or smart, and then what a good lover you are. Later, you prove what a good father or husband you are. Finally, you prove how wise or powerful or whatever. But underlying it, page 73, underlying it all, I now see there was a presumption I had that one moved on an upward path towards some elevation where I don't know what, I would be justified or condemned, a verdict anyway. I think that my disaster, and he's talking about his lifelong depression, is I think my disaster really began when I looked up one day and I realized the bench was empty. There's no judge in sight. And all that remained was the endless argument with oneself the pointless litigation of existence before an empty bench, which, of course, is another way of saying despair. Now, listen, friends, if you can't preach this, I'll tell you something. He looks up and he says, you know, all my life I said I'm going to try to be a good father, try to be a good husband, try to be a good person. He's moving along, and one day he looked up and realized the implication. If there is no God, if there's nobody at the bench, I realized that all along, I've always assumed there were standards. I realized that there was meaning, and now I suddenly realize, if the bench is empty, the endless argument with oneself, the pointless litigation of existence before an empty bench, which, of course, is no way of saying despair." So what he's really saying is, if you don't have God, if you don't have a judge of the Universe and of history, you have a meaningless life. It means that nothing you do really counts. In other words, if I'm cruel, in the end, what difference is that gonna make? Oh, there might be immediate implications, but if I can get away with it, and nothing makes any difference in the end because in the end we're gonna die, and then the end after that the Universe is gonna die and there will be nobody around to remember anything. If you want to live as if there's meaning in life, as if your choices make a difference, you're living as if there is a God, but you won't admit it. You want all the advantages. You don't want to have your cake and eat it too. You're being emotionally and intellectually dishonest. The empty bench is the secular view of the world to say everything is relative is to be shut up to your own endless internal argument because you will never be able to stop striving. See, down deep you know that there are standards. that it matters for you to be unselfish rather than to be selfish? If your premise that the universe is empty leads you to a conclusion that you know isn't true, that there's no meaning in life, that there's no reason to go on, why not change your premise? Now, let me give you a completely different take, though. That thing right there does not wash with the lesbian artists, the female lesbian artists that I'm having a Bible study with right now, three of them. That won't work. That's a little too touchy-feely for them. That's a little too remote. Some of my younger people, they like that a lot. But look at this quote from Miroslav Volf in Exclusion and Embrace. Let's talk about vengeance and judgment. Volf who is a Croatian, and who is a Christian by the way, he's a little different than Arthur Miller. Quoting Miroslav Volf does not exactly help you enter the worldview like quoting Arthur Miller or Annie Dillard. And yet most people don't know who Volf is, and if you say he's a Croatian, who's doing theological reflection about the violence in the Balkans, that helps a little bit, as opposed to you quoting J.I. Packer or C.S. Lewis. That doesn't help you get into the worldview at all. But anyway, here's an interesting thing that Miroslav Volf says in his book. My thesis is that the practice of nonviolence requires a belief in divine vengeance. My thesis will be unpopular with many in the West, but imagine speaking to people as I have, whose cities and villages have been first plundered, then burned and leveled to the ground, whose daughters and sisters have been raped, whose fathers and brothers have had their throats slit. Your point to them, should we not retaliate? Why not? I say the only means of prohibiting violence by us is to insist that violence is only legitimate when it comes from God. Now, by the way, if you're a Christian reading this and you're saying, hey, he's making a case for pacifism, yes, he is a pacifist. But there's no reason to go there. I'm not a pacifist, but there's no reason to go there. You'll see what I mean.

Do you know what he's saying? He says, The typical liberal skeptical person says, that will make me a war-like person. If I believe in a God of vengeance and justice, that will lead to violence. He says, you must be crazy. He says, if you've actually been the victim of violence, you will know that you will have to pick up the sword and pay those bastards back unless you have some incredibly powerful conviction that there is a God who eventually is going to put all things right. So if you don't believe in a God of vengeance, you will be trapped in the cycle of violence and it takes the practice, it takes a belief in divine vengeance practice of non-violence. Anybody who thinks otherwise shows that you have never suffered yourself. You've never really been through this. If you think the idea of a god of justice and vengeance leads to somehow more violence and more intolerance, you don't know what you're talking about. Now that absolutely disarms people. So here's the entry point. The entry point is peacemaking is good. The suffering of the oppressed is bad. One of our biggest problems today is how do you get people who deeply differ to live together in peace and how to stop the endless of vengeance and violence. Most secular people believe that religion only makes the cycles of violence worse. It would be better for peace if more people were religiously skeptical like the Western intellectuals. Here's a challenging point. That's a naive view held by people who themselves have not suffered violence. If I am violated, only a deep belief in a God of justice will enable me to refrain from picking up the sword and rendering my own justice. The only way to nonviolence is a belief in a God of judgment and vengeance. Now, I mean, I know a guy, I remember a gay friend, a gay man who had become a Christian, very-very-liberal-downtown kind of guy, came and I used that. And he was utterly furious. They took him out to eat afterwards, and he says, the reason I'm furious is I have no... He says, I don't believe in a God of vengeance, I don't believe in a God of justice, I have no idea how to answer that.

He says, you're right, I don't know what to say. I hadn't thought of that. But it just makes me mad. But boy, that was great, that's progress, you know that's progress. But that's what I mean now, What is presuppositional apologetics? You see, what you're doing is you're saying, look, I find something that people have smuggled into their worldview, I mean, into their life, that they're stealing. They're stealing from the biblical worldview, because down deep they know that there's a God, and they're living as if that's true. So you show them the contradictions of the things that they're doing with their commitments.

And the Bible says this, and blab, aren't we buddies on this, and we all believe this, and isn't this great, and we're all together on this? But wait a minute, you don't believe in the biblical God. Oh, well then, you know what? You really can't hold this with any kind of real integrity. In fact, don't you see the problems that are going to happen? And unless you believe in the biblical God, you cannot continue with integrity to hold on to this. That's it. Let me give you another one. How do you argue on the authority of the Bible with post- now this is page 73, How do you argue with people who don't believe in the authority of the Bible because they're relativistic because they believe in personal relationships and love and goop?

Postmodern people believe in love and goop and personality and flexibility, and they don't like the idea of rigidity and absolute truth and authority. What are you going to do? You're going to say, well, the Bible's just true. Which is, I think, the way a lot of people do it. Now, let me suggest two things. Here's one entry point, without doing all this long quote. Do you want a personal relationship with God? Wouldn't you want to have a God with whom you can have an intimate, living, personal relationship with? Everybody says, sure. Well, if you want a personal relationship, the other person will have to be able to contradict you. If a wife can never contradict her husband, for example, you don't have a personal relationship. Have you ever seen the Stepford Wives movie? Guys didn't want a personal relationship, they just wanted a woman who would never contradict them, so they slaughtered their wives, they killed their wives, and they put robots in their place. Do you remember that? It's a sappy movie, but a frightening movie, too. It's really frightening. And the Stepford Wives are really robots. These are husbands in Stepford, Connecticut who are killing off their wives and creating robot replacements for their wives who never contradict them and always say, yes, dear, yes, dear, yes, dear. They don't want a personal relationship, right? if you have a relationship with somebody who always says, oh, yes, oh, yes, oh, yes, never contradicts you, never mixes it up, you can never have a conflict, you don't have a personal relationship with them. Right? It's one, it's a robotic relationship. Now, if you pick and choose what you want to believe in the Bible and what you can't believe on the basis of modern thinking or on the basis of personal thinking, if you say, well, I can believe this part but not this part, I can believe in this part but not, I can believe in this part, how will you ever have God who can contradict you? How will you ever have God whom you can wrestle with? Only if God can be, or say things that outrage you, will you know you have God, and not the figment of your imagination. An authoritative Bible is not the enemy of the personal mystical relationship God, it is the absolute precondition. If you do not have the Bible whom you have to submit to in its entirety, even the parts that outrage you, then you don't have a personal relationship. Haven't you ever been married?

Or I can give you another example, quickly. A lot of people will say, well, you know, these things that the Bible says, Jesus raised, rose from the dead, I just believe those are a nice legend. I believe that it spiritually happened. I don't believe they happened for real. Now, if you would say that to John Warwick Montgomery or people like that, they'd say, oh, let me show you all the evidence for why we can believe the New Testament documents and why they're historical and all that. That's really fairly tedious to get into a sermon.

I would say, would you like to have a relationship with God based on grace? Would you like to have a relationship with God based on grace? Wouldn't it be great if God could accept you in spite of all the things you've done, just accept you because there was a way for him to have a relationship with you based completely on grace, not on the basis of your performance? Wouldn't you like that? I mean, the average person says, oh, that's interesting. What? If the stories of the New Testament gospel are just wonderful stories, then there are examples to you of how you ought to live and you have one more moral paradigm that will utterly crush you. You might look at them and say, well, that's very nice, I'm going to try to live like that, you'll be crushed, you'll only like it because you haven't thought about it, you'll never be able to live like that. So if Jesus Christ, if these are just nice moral stories, you have another moral paradigm to crush you, but if Jesus actually came and did these things for you in history, in time and space, then there is the possibility of him because he's a substitute, living the life you should have lived and dying the death you should have died, for the Father to have a relationship with you based on grace, because he has fulfilled the requirements. If you don't believe in historicity of what happened in the Gospels, you have another moral paradigm to crush you, and you will be crushed by it. Now, that's how I argue with them. I don't even worry about, you know, here, read F.F. Bruce's historical documents, are they reliable? They suddenly realize, I see, I cannot have a personal relationship unless I have an authoritative Bible and I can trust the historicity of what it says that Jesus Christ said and did. And what am I doing? What I'm doing is I don't go arguing, empirically arguing, you know, here's the evidence for the resurrection, because in their worldview, that stuff, their eyes glaze over. I take what they already are committed to, grace, relationship, personal stuff, and I argue on the basis of that. You want that? That's fine. But unless you accept biblical faith, You really can't hold what you have. You really can't have what you have. Okay? Here's what I'm going to do. First thing in the morning, I will do the last two. I'll do reality of hell. How do you preach on hell to people who don't believe in hell? How do you preach on the uniqueness of Christ to people who believe that no one should say that Jesus is the only way? How do you do that? And I will give you those examples, and then we'll immediately have a long question-and-answer time in the morning. because that will kind of end my part of application. But do you see why I'm saying, entering and challenging worldview, you're going to have to start thinking like this, and if you don't, you're only going to keep getting people from, there really are two nations out there now, there are two kinds of people, there's people who are still thinking like Christians, they still have a kind of moral worldview, and there's other people who actually have a whole new view of life, that's the reason why they're looking at the same things that happen in our political world, and they come up with such Salutations. Don't you feel like we really are two nations now? And you're going to have to start learning how to think worldviewishly if you're going to apply the text to people. Let me close in prayer, all right? Father, I thank you for the way that you are able to every century, every age, every culture, your gospel just moves on forward. It doesn't stay in one place. It doesn't stay in one century. It is a living thing. And we thank you that we're stewards of the gospel, stewards of its mystery, and we ask that you would help us to understand how we can just simply set it loose in people's lives. We know that it is a spiritual power. I'm not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power unto salvation for all who believe. And we just ask for you to continue to help us, to show us how we can release that power in people's lives. We thank you for this, in Jesus' name, amen. Thank you.
