Tonight's reading is from Luke chapter 1, verses 1 through 4, and then Luke chapter 24, verses 18 through 27.

In as much as many have undertaken to compile a narrative of the things that have been accomplished among us, just as those who from the beginning were eyewitnesses and ministers of the word have delivered them to us, it seemed good to me also, having followed all things closely late for some time past to write an orderly account for you, most excellent Theophilus, that you may have certainty concerning the things you have been taught.

Then one of them, named Cleopas, answered him, Are you the only visitor to Jerusalem who does not know the things that have happened there in these days? And he said to them, What things? And they said to him, Concerning Jesus of Nazareth, a man who was a prophet, mighty in deed the people, and how our chief priests and rulers delivered him up to be condemned to death and crucified him. But we had hoped that he was the one to redeem Israel. Yes, and besides all this, it is now the third day since these things have happened. Moreover, some women of our company amazed us. They were at the tomb early in the morning, and when they did not find his body, they came back, saying that they had even seen a vision of angels who said that he was alive. alive. Some of those who were with us went to the tomb and found it just as the women had said, but him they did not see. And he said to them, O foolish ones, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken. Was it not necessary that the Christ should suffer these things and enter into his glory? And beginning with Moses and all the prophets, he interpreted to them and all the scriptures, the things concerning himself. This is God's word.

Tonight we're going to start another series on the life of Jesus. We're going to build a biography of Jesus, but out of the gospel of Luke. And right off the bat, Luke takes hold of one of the very first issues that confronts anyone who's trying to begin to explore Christianity. Christianity it's interesting as you can almost immediately intuit from this these first four verses of the gospel of Luke that he is writing to someone he calls oh excellent Theophilus he's writing to a cultured educated man and therefore expects that the book will be written will be read by educated and fairly cultured readers and he immediately deals with what the average educated person wonders about. If someone comes along and says, I'm going to tell you the story of Jesus, the first question that comes up is, where did you get your information? How do we know it's reliable? If you begin to study Christianity or explore Christianity immediately in our society, and especially in New York, the question immediately comes up. Not a question, it's actually a premise. The premise is that the accounts of Jesus' life in the Bible and in the Gospels are not reliable, legends, and therefore, we can't really know who Jesus is. We can't really know what he said or what he claimed or what he did or who he was at all. Now, of course, that's a huge barrier to any kind of progress, and Luke immediately answers the question, immediately confronts it in a remarkable way, and basically says here, I'm going to tell you the true story of Jesus, Jesus. And that's our three points. The true story of Jesus, point one. First thing he's telling us here, and by the way, as we look and see how he deals with this objection to Christianity, that we don't really know who Jesus is because the accounts are legendary, we're going to actually get a very good intro, I think, to the Gospel of Luke that we're going to be looking at over the next few weeks. He's telling us that I'm about to give you the true story of Jesus. First, First, it's the true story of Jesus. Now, that might sound interesting and obvious, but in the beginning, he says, I'm going to give you an account of what he calls the things that have been accomplished among us. See verse 1? The things that have been accomplished among us. Now, that's a very odd phrase. It might not strike you immediately. The things among us are historical events. He says, I'm going to recount to you the historic events of Jesus, the things that happened among us. But he doesn't use the word happened, which would be the normal word to use with historic events. He uses the word accomplished, or the word fulfilled is another way you could translate it. And it's a very odd word to use with historic events. And here's what he's saying. He says, in Jesus Christ, history is fulfilled. that Jesus Christ's life is the proof and the fulfillment of God working in history for centuries, all coming to a climax now in Jesus. Now, what is he saying? Dick Lucas, a British minister some years ago, was reading an essay, and in it the man was a skeptic about Christianity, and he said, I'd love to believe in God, I really would, but it isn't possible. I could believe in a watertight argument, a watertight proof without a single hole, one from which there's no escaping, then I could believe. He says, I believe in God as long as God would give me an infallible, inescapable argument. And Dick Lucas said in his sermon, which I got this off a tape some years ago, which helped me a great deal. He said, I don't think God has provided us with a watertight argument, though I know some disagree with me. What God has provided you and me is a watertight person with no holes in him. There's no escaping him. Jesus Christ is the watertight person against whom in the end there can be no argument. And as I've thought about this over the years, I think he's absolutely right, and here's what he means. Millions of people have found that Jesus himself, himself, that God has not given us an inescapable, infallible argument, but Jesus himself is an inescapable, infallible person against whom there can be no argument. Millions of people, just by looking at the life of Jesus, have found him intellectually inescapable. What do I mean? Well, when we look through the gospel, as we go through the gospel, there's one hand, another hand to Jesus. On the one hand, we're going to see him unbelievably open and welcoming and empowering and inclusive, as it were, of people who back in those days were outsiders and outcasts. You're going to see him reaching out over and over again to the poor, to women, to children, to prostitutes, to lepers, to collaborators with the enemy, to Gentiles. And, you know, we modern people read this, and you're especially going to see this in the book of Luke. We read these incidents, and we say, you know, we love that. We say, isn't that remarkable? But it's more remarkable than you know, because to see him reaching out to those kinds of folks even now is remarkable. But in the day where he lived, in that time and place, he was utterly unique. He was utterly outrageous. He was over the top in his inclusiveness and his openness and his reaching out to all these people. But on the other hand, also on every single page, you are going to see him making self-centered claims, claims about himself that are by any standards megalomaniacal. They're beyond megalomania. You're going to see him routinely He's going to judge the world on the last day. He claims that He is the giver of life, author and giver of life. He claims that He alone has authority to forgive sins. He claims that He is equal with the Father. He claims that He has been sending the prophets to us, to the world over the centuries. He makes these... Listen. You know, we've gotten used to it. But I'm trying to get you not used to it just for a second. He makes claims that go beyond the megalomaniacs of history. beyond anything anyone has ever said outside of a mental institution. He goes beyond the Hitlers. He goes beyond those megalomaniacs. But here's what's weird. The megalomaniacs we do have are never in their lives so beautiful, so tender, so kind, so humble. I mean, Jesus Christ lived a life of such moral beauty that he got hundreds of people who lived with him, Jews, the last people on the face of the earth who would ever believe that God could become human. To believe in him. Now, how do you explain claims like that and a life like that? And over the years, millions of people have looked and looked and looked and looked and said, this is inescapable. He must be who he said he is. He must. There's no other explanation for it. it. If you're outside and the sun comes up and it hits you, hot, bright sun, you do not need someone to come up and say, hey, you see that up there in the sky? I can prove to you that's bright and hot. You say, well, thank you, but don't waste your breath. I don't need a long chain of reasoning to prove that's bright and hot. I know it is.

How do you know there's a glorious God? And this is what Luke is saying to Theophilus. How do you know that God has been at work in history? How do you know there's a God behind everything? How do you know there's a glorious God? Not through an infallible, inescapable argument, but through an infallible, inescapable person against whom, in the end, there can be no argument.

As Paul says, For we do not preach ourselves, but Jesus Christ is Lord.

The face. As you look at who He is, as you look at Him living and speaking and interacting with people, as you look at His life, that's how you know there's a God of glory. Is there anybody here

who's been waiting around for an infallible argument, an inescapable infallible argument when God has sent you an inescapable infallible person? you're going to wait forever. Doesn't God have the right to send you a person instead of an argument? Is there anybody here saying, I'd be happy to believe I'm just waiting for that infallible argument? What if that's not how he does it? You might wait forever. Don't. Look at the face of Jesus Christ. Look at what Luke says. I'm going to show you the true story of Jesus. So that's the first thing he says his gospel is about. But the second thing, very important, is he says, what I'm about to give you is not just the true story of Jesus, but the true story of Jesus. It's true. And here is where Luke really takes on directly the pervasive belief, in New York anyway. You see it in the popular media, you hear it on the street, you hear it everywhere, and that is that you really, yeah, go ahead, look at Jesus, but we can't trust the information. Here's Luke saying we ought to trust, you know, look at Jesus, but basically these were legends, and we don't know if any of these things really happened. And Luke takes it on, and he directly contradicts that, and he says no. And in verse 2 and 3, he tells us three things that happened. He says, let me tell you, Theophilus, I know you're an educated, sophisticated person. Let me tell you where I got my information. And he says, says, number one, there were eyewitnesses. Number two, who delivered what they saw. Eyewitnesses to Jesus, eyewitnesses to who Jesus was and what he did and said. The number two, they delivered what they saw to us. And number three, I have followed all things closely and written an account. And that's the word. Well, let me go through this. Number one, first of all, he says there were eyewitnesses. There were, I mean, Jesus Christ did not. where these things were not done on a corner. Jesus' ministry was incredibly public. There were thousands and thousands of people who heard him speak and saw him do things, both friends and enemies. So there were tons of eyewitnesses. Here's what's interesting. The eyewitnesses took what they saw and they delivered them. The word delivered is as good as, you know, the English word delivered is as good as any. But it says, the Greek word there is the word paradosis. And it's a word, it's a technical term for passing along eyewitness material orally down to another generation without changing it at all. The paradosis was a practice. And it was a very, very binding practice. And the last 20 years, There's been a lot of scholarly research about this. That when you were following a teacher and you heard the teacher say something or you saw the teacher do something, you committed it to memory. And then you passed it on down. You passed the material on down and you were not allowed in any way to alter it. You did not add to it. You did not embellish it. You did not revise it. You did not change it. So you had all these eyewitnesses who delivered this down to us. And here's what Luke says he has just done. He says, I've already got, look at verse 1. other accounts. See, many have undertaken to compile a narrative. There are already other written accounts. And he says, so I've taken the other written accounts, and I have checked them out with the eyewitness sources I've got, and having investigated and done all this work, I have put them all into an orderly account for you. Now, this completely contradicts what the average person in New York believes about the Bible. It's certainly about the accounts of Jesus' person says, These are legends, and we can't trust them. And Luke says that's not true, and actually Luke raises three reasons why the idea that the life of Jesus in the Bible is legendary, three reasons why that will not hold up to scrutiny. Three reasons. You see them not only in these four verses, but you're going to see them constantly over and over again as we go through the book of Luke. And here's the three reasons why these can't be legends. The timing is too early. The content is too counterproductive. The timing is too early. The content is too counterproductive. The timing is too early. The content is too counterproductive. The timing is too early. The timing is too early. The timing is too early. The content is too really fulfilled The timing is too really fulfilled The timing is too really fulfilled The content is really fulfilled The timing is really fulfilled The content is really fulfilled The timing is really fulfilled The content is really fulfilled The of his life were 400 years later. And the problem with that is that when there's no written down accounts about someone's life till centuries after the person lived, there are no eyewitness checks. There's no eyewitness memory around to check on whether this was embellished or revised or whether there were additions or whether it was just totally fabricated. There's no checks. And therefore, when something's written down centuries later, we say it's legendary, whether or not it happened. But everyone knows, and Luke claims it, and by the way, every historian would agree, everybody agrees, that Luke wrote within 25 to 40 years after the death of Jesus, in which case most of the eyewitnesses would still be around. Now, you cannot just make up legends of major public acts that quickly. I cannot write, I cannot make up a story, fabricate a story that says on the tip of Manhattan in 1977, 5,000 people saw a man fly through the air without any mechanical means. I can't do that. Why? Because 25 years is not long enough. You got cops that were on the beat down there all that year, and they'll say, I never saw anything like that. You can't do it. It wouldn't even be accepted. Now, I could write and say in 1777, 5,000 people at the tip. Of course, there weren't 5,000 people living there, saw this man, and somebody said, well, how do you know that? There's no verification. There's no empirical external support for that. And he said, well, I just heard it. And of course, nobody could disprove it, but nobody could prove it. It's a legend. But you see, Luke was not writing centuries afterwards. He was writing them almost immediately after. And you just can't make up a story that says Jesus fed 5,000 people in the wilderness. You can't make up that story unless something happened out there in the wilderness with 5,000 people because you have friends and enemies that are still alive. You can't make up a story like Paul says in 1 Corinthians 15, where he says 500 people saw Jesus Christ risen from the dead at once. You can't make up a story like that 15 or 20 years after the event unless there were 500 people who claimed to see him. You can't just make it up. So the timing is too early for legends. Secondly, the content is too counterproductive for legends. One of the more irritating things, I have to admit, by the time I get to the fourth sermon I get more irritated as the day goes on it seems like. And one of the more irritating things to me is I read it, I hear people say this all the time. They say, well, you know the reason why you can't trust the gospel accounts of Jesus' Jesus' life. You can't trust them because they were written by Christians, people who believed in Jesus. So these were Christians and they had an agenda. You can't trust historical records by people who have this heavy agenda. Their agenda was to promote their movement, to get people in the first century to believe in Christianity. So they had an agenda. Therefore, we can't trust their reliability. But I want you to know that we can trust that reliability because they had the agenda of wanting people to believe. Here's the problem. When you say that, of course, they had an agenda. They were trying to get people to believe. That is ignorant of... That implies that they made up things, right? That is ignorant of the fact that almost every major event in the life of Jesus was confusing, repugnant, and offensive to first century readers, and that nobody would have made up those things were, and they were. They were trying to promote belief in Jesus. But the major events of the story of the life of Jesus were offensive to first century readers and would never have been made up by people with the agenda in order to promote the movement. So, for example, what do I mean? For example, look at the account of the death of Jesus. The night before the death, every single one of the gospel writers says that Jesus was in the garden saying, God, could you get me off the hook. Could I get out of this, please? You don't make up a story that your Messiah wanted to get off the hook of his mission the night before. And then on the cross, he says, my God, you have deserted me. You have forsaken me. No one in a million years who's trying to promote

the movement of Christianity would write those things down and make those things up because they're utterly offensive and confusing to first century readers. The only historically plausible reason that those incidents were recorded was that they happened. There is no other good reason for them to be there. Or let's take a look at the birth of Jesus. So we have these wonderful accounts of the birth of Jesus. And who were the witnesses of the birth of Jesus? Shepherds, the dregs of society, everybody knew that. But more than that, that the accounts of the birth of Jesus have his mother giving birth to him, but she wasn't married. He was the child of an unwed mother. Now, why in the world would you ever make up that? That was, by the way, we know this, utterly disgraceful and utterly repugnant to first century readers who were reading. So why would you make up something? Why would you make up a story that is utterly repugnant to the people you were trying to convert? And the answer again is, historically plausible reason that would have been recorded is if it happened. There's no other good reason. Or take a look at the account of the resurrection. Like I said, every single major event in the life of Jesus, in the story of Jesus' life. We even have it down here in Luke 24, which we had read. All of the gospel writers tell us that the first witnesses to the resurrection of Jesus were women. I like to bring this up every Easter. And in the first century, in all ancient cultures, women were of such low social standing that women's testimony was not admissible evidence in court. And therefore, why would you make up, if you were making up a story of the resurrection, why would you include that women were the first witnesses? And the answer is you wouldn't. You would never do that. All that did was create a lack of credibility in the mind of the first century readers. And therefore, again, the only historically plausible reason that would be recorded is if it happened. The content of the story of Jesus is so counterproductive to the agenda of the Christians that the basic features of the life of Jesus Christ could not possibly have been made up. And thirdly, the timing's too early for these to be legends. The content is too counterproductive for these to be legends. But lastly, the style, the literary style is too detailed. What do I mean by that? Well, you're going to see this as we go through the Gospels, but the Gospel stories are filled with detail, what I'm going to call narratively unnecessary detail. So, for example, in Mark 4, in the story of Jesus Christ before he stills the storm, on his arm. He uh... ...we're told that he was uh... sleeping on a cushion ...in the boat. Well, how does that help the story? It doesn't at all. How does that fit into the story? How does... you know... is this like the movie signs?.. ...you know?.. ...at the very end of signs?.. ...'everything matters?.. ...you know?.. ...the fact that the little girl liked to keep water?.. ...you know?.. ...in glasses?.. ...everwhere?.. ...the fact?.. ...that?.. the uncle had been a baseball player. Everything matters. But at the end of these stories, he was sleeping in a cushion. How does that help? Not at all. John chapter 8. We're told that before Jesus Christ helped the woman, saved the woman who was about to be stoned and executed for adultery, that famous story in John 8, we're told that Jesus was doodling in the dust with his finger. What was he writing? Doesn't say. Well, why was he doodling? Doesn't say. How does that help the story? It doesn't. It just mentions it in one verse and goes on with the rest of the story, never gets back to it. In John chapter 21, when John and Peter, after the resurrection, see the risen Christ on the shore, and they bring their boat in after they had this great haul of fish, we're told, John chapter 21 tells us, they brought their fish in, and there were 153 fish. 153. Well, why do we need to know there's 153? Well, we don't. It doesn't help at all. When you read the stories of King Arthur, when you read the legends of King Arthur and the legends of Hercules, why don't you see details like that? The reason why we as modern readers don't notice how interesting and significant it is that you have all these details in the Gospels. The reason we as modern readers don't notice this is because for the last two to three hundred years, in modern times, we've developed what's called realistic novelistic fiction. And in our fiction today, short stories and novels, there's lots and lots of details that don't necessarily move forward the narrative, but they're there to give an air of reality. And that's natural today for fiction writers, but it was not natural 2,000 years ago. That's of modern innovation. And what this means is that for an ancient writer to write down 100, to talk about the doodling and the cushion and the 153 fish, there is no reason for the ancient writer to write that down except that the eyewitness source of the story remembered it. It was there because someone remembered it. And see, this is, this is, these can't be legends. Legends weren't written like this. C.S. Lewis, who was a professor of literature at Oxford and it perfectly, and rather devastatingly for people who think, well, these are just legends, when he says about the Gospels, he says, I've been reading poems, romances, vision literature, legends, and myths all my life, and I know what they're like. I know none of them are like this. Of the Gospel texts, there are only two possible views. Either this is reportage, or else some unknown ancient writer without known predecessors or successors suddenly technique of modern novelistic realistic narrative. The reader who doesn't see this has simply not learned how to read. See, this is devastating. These can't be legends. Do you know that? They can't be. The timing is too early, the content is too counterproductive, and the literary style is too detailed. And here is the reason why Luke, this is what Luke is saying, excuse me. Luke is going to enormous pains to say, oh Theophilus, oh readers, The story of Jesus I'm about to tell you is true. Don't believe the gospel because it's exciting, though it is. Don't believe the gospel because it'll meet your needs, though it will.

Don't believe the gospel because it'll give you a personal relationship with God, though it does. Believe the gospel because it's true. true. If the story of Jesus isn't true, it'll be of no help to you. It might be touching, it might be exciting, it might be moving, but if it's not true, it won't help you. Now, the modern New York person, modern people, when they hear that, they say, wait a minute.

Wait a minute. The story of Jesus does make me feel close to God. It's working for me. I don't know if it's true. It doesn't matter. It might be true for me and not be true for somebody else. It works for me. Who knows if it's true? And the answer to that is, if it's not true for everyone, it can't work at all. And you say, why would that be true? That leaves us to our third point. This is the true story of Jesus. This is the true story of Jesus, but this is also, last of all, the true story of Jesus. The story. Look at verse 1. What Luke is trying to put together is a narrative. That's a very important word. He says, many have tried to compile a narrative, and I'm going to provide a narrative. It's the Greek word diagesis, which means a story. And he says, my purpose is not to compile the teachings Jesus. My purpose is not to create an anthology of little vignettes out of the life of Jesus. And if you look at the other scriptures of other religions, you'll see that's what you get. It's not a compendium of the teachings of Jesus. It's not a compendium of the sayings of Jesus. The gospel is not the teachings. It's not the sayings. It's not a series of vignettes that show us principles for living from the life of Jesus. The gospel is a story. Now, we have to be careful because the word story to many in English has connotations of fiction. I just try to say it's a true story, but more you have to realize it's a story. Someone says, well, what does that mean? What is the significance of it being a story? Oh, all the significance in the world. Here's why. The fact that it's a story means it's not the teachings of Jesus, but the actions of Jesus that save you. If it's the teachings of Jesus that saves you, you, then basically what saves you is how you live. But if it's the story of the actions of Jesus, then you can be saved by grace. Here's what I mean. Look at all other religions and you'll see that what really is crucial in the life of all the other religious founders is not what they did but what they said. It's not their actions but it's their teaching. Why? Because in every other religious system, you are saved by how you live. You're saved by living a particular kind of life. And that means what's really crucial about the founders is not what they did so much, except as an example, but their teaching. Because you need to know how to live. And their teaching says, here's how, you know, Buddha says, here's how to find enlightenment. You know, Muhammad says, here's how you submit and please God. They all have somewhat different teachings, but the point…they're all the same in this, that it's the teachings that are important because it's how you live that saves you. In Christianity, we're completely the opposite. First of all, notice that even though there's teaching in the gospel, it's not the teaching that saves you because Luke is not saying, I'm creating a compendium of teachings, I'm creating a story. Why? Because the teaching of Jesus is not elevating, It's not inspirational. It's terrible. It's devastating. If you read it, if you think the teachings of Jesus are elevating and they're just morally uplifting, you have never read them. Look, Virginia Stem Owen, some years ago, she was an English professor at a college, and she knew that most of her students had heard of the Sermon on the Mount, but they never read it. So she assigned all of them to read it, and then she asked for the response papers, and she said the response papers were remarkable. Here's what one student said. I did not like the Sermon on the Mount. It made me feel I had to be perfect, and no one is. Here's another student. The things this sermon asks for are stupid.

Virginia Owen said this. She said, The students noted, number one, that Jesus does not just require that we give most of our money away, but to do it joyfully. Number two, Jesus does not just forbid killing people, It's disdaining people, feeling superior to people, and even treating someone with coldness or indifference. You can imagine how that went down with college students. Number three, Jesus does not just say, I can't revenge myself on someone persecuting me, but that I have to love them and hope for them and care for them. Jesus does not just forbid worry, but he says, I have to live gratefully and happily content with whatever situation I have. And Virginia Owen said this. devastating about the teaching of Jesus was two things. On the one hand, when you read the Sermon on the Mount, you know unavoidably these are the kinds of people I want to live near. This is the kind of world I want to be in, and therefore you know unavoidably that this is the way I need to live, and yet second, it's impossible. And so the only reasonable response to a compendium of teaching of Jesus Christ would be, God save me from the Sermon on the Mount because it exposes me, because it strips me, because it condemns me. The teaching of Jesus would be nothing but an eternal horror. And that's the reason why Luke says, I have not given you a compendium, an anthology, I'm giving you the story of Jesus because the teaching of Jesus proves The truth is that we don't need teaching. We need a story. We don't need a way for us to live the right kind of life. But we need the actions of Jesus Christ to come in and live the life we should have lived and die the death we should have died. We don't need a teacher. We need a Savior. We don't need someone who tells us what to do. We need someone who does what we should have done. We need someone who has to do things. And this is the reason why, I'm going to say this with all due respect, This is the reason why the story of Jesus Christ has to be true for everybody, or it doesn't work for anybody. Look, the miracles of Buddha, the miracles of Muhammad, the things that they did, with all due respect,

those accounts work for their believers within the context of their own religious system, whether they're historic or not. Do you hear me? The accounts of what Buddha and Muhammad, their miracles, the things that they did, they work for the religious believers within the context of their own religious systems, whether historic or not. And here's the reason why. Because the purpose of miracles in those other religions is to instruct us, to inspire us to live in a certain way. But the miracles of Jesus, his miraculous birth, his miraculous resurrection, direction. The miracles of Jesus have to have happened. They actually have to have happened because the purpose of miracles in Jesus' life is not to instruct us how to live, but to save us, to save us. Now, here's the perfect illustration that I know. Think of the birth of Jesus. Wonderful account, very famous. You're going to hear a lot about it the next four weeks. Jesus born in a manger, angels, shepherds, you know, the whole nine yards. Let me ask you a How does that work as an inspiring parable? How does that work? What does it inspire you to do?

Be a shepherd?

Have your children out of doors?

Have your children out of wedlock? Think. As an inspiring parable, it's useless. but as a fact, it changes everything. If it's an inspiring parable, it doesn't work. It doesn't work. But if it's true, if it happened, it means God has landed. It means God has broken into history. It means there's hope that someday death and injustice and poverty and disease and despair will be gone. on. The stories of Jesus. Well, they work for me. I don't know whether they're historically true or not. They might be true for me. They might not be true for you. Maybe they're true for you. They're not true for me. If they're not true for everybody, they don't work at all. At all. Because salvation in Christianity is by grace. It's not by Jesus coming and inspiring us and instructing us and through an example showing us how we should live. It's by Jesus Christ coming and living the life we should have lived, and dying the death we should have died, and saving us.

And if you know that, you're saved by the story of Jesus, not the teaching of Jesus. You're saved by the actions of Jesus, not the sayings of Jesus. It changes everything. It's utterly different than any other religion. And therefore, it's the true story of Jesus that saves you. Now, one last thing. If Jesus Christ, Christ, if you're saved through the story of Jesus Christ, what is a story? Well, a story, Little Red Riding Hood took her grandmother goodies is not a story. Little Red Riding Hood took her grandmother goodies and a big white wolf chased her and a woodcutter saved her. That's a story. Why? A story has a hero. A story has a protagonist. There's something you care about, threatened by antagonistic forces, and then there's a protagonist or a hero that saves things. If that's true, who's the hero of the world story? Who's the hero of your life story? Who's the hero of your friend's story, your family story? Who's the hero of the Bible story? At the very end of the book of Luke, which we've printed here, three days after Jesus died, there were two disciples who were walking along, and they were discouraged. and a stranger showed up and said, what's the matter? Why are you so unhappy? And they said, well, this Jesus guy, we thought he was going to be the Savior. We thought he was going to redeem Israel, but he died. The irony is in verse 20 and 21. We thought he was going to redeem Israel, but he died.

And Jesus, who was the mysterious stranger, says, oh, foolish and slow of heart to believe. And he said, beginning with Moses and all the prophets, interpreted to them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. What he said is, you know the reason why you're despondent? You know the reason why you're upset? The reason why you're confused about yourself, about your life, about everything else? Because you've read the Bible, but you don't know who the hero is. You don't know who the Bible's about. Who is the Bible about? Let's look at the story of Abraham. What's the point of the story of Abraham? Is the point of the story of Abraham that you and I should be as faithful as him, as he was? What's the point of the story of Moses? That you and I need to be as strong as he was? What's the point of the story of David going out to Goliath? Is the point of the story of David that you and I need to be as courageous as David? In other words, are all the stories about us? He says, The reason why you're all screwed up is because the reason you can't understand why Messiah would come and die, you thought Messiah had come and teach.

Because you thought all the stories were about you. You thought that you were the hero. But every one of them points to me. I'm the true Moses. I'm the true Abraham. And I'm the true David. And let me show you how that works. If I look at the story of David and say, the hero of that story, basically that story is about me.

I'm going to have to go out and face the giants of life, like my failure this year economically, or like the fact that I've got cancer and I might die. But I've got to be strong. You'll never be strong. unless you'll never be like David,

unless you look to the one that David points to. The real hero, every one of these stories, Jesus says, everything is about me, not you. Jesus is the ultimate David. He went out like the little David did and fought for his people so that his victory was imputed to them. Well, Jesus Christ went and took on the ultimate giant, is eternal death, which means you can face physical death bravely only if you know that Jesus, your ultimate David, has already faced eternal death and has saved you. So no matter what happens to you now, it'll be all right. You're never going to face the little giants unless you recognize the...you're never going to be a little David unless you recognize the big David, Jesus Christ, the ultimate David. And Jesus says, unless you begin to see that I'm the hero of your story. The pressure's off. You don't have to save yourself. I'll save you. You know what happens? You look at your family and you say, I've got to save my family. If I'm not good, I've got to show them the truth. I've got to help them. I've got to save my family. Jesus says, no, the pressure's off. I'm the hero of your family's story. I'm the hero of your story. I'm the hero of the world's story. I'm the hero. I'm the hero of heroes. I save by grace. The pressure's And here's the irony of the whole thing. It's not until I realize that I'm not the hero he is that I can start acting heroic. Because not until the pressure's off of me that I really start to be able to face life fearlessly, just as in every tournament, the team that does the best is the one where the pressure's off because they have nothing to lose and they have nothing to prove. prove. It's interesting that the two English authors who are the most read authors in the English-speaking language in the 20th century were friends, and one of them led the other one to Jesus Christ. One was an atheist and one was a Christian. J.R.R. Tolkien was the Christian, and C.S. Lewis was the atheist. And they took a long walk one day on the grounds of Modlin College in Oxford. And you know what? Tolkien led C.S. Lewis to Christ talking about heroes because Lewis says, you know, I love the old stories of ancient heroes. They really stir me up. What a shame they're all myths. And Tolkien says, they're not all myths.

And Lewis says, what do you mean? Tolkien says, well, listen, Listen, you know the story of Sleeping Beauty? It points to the truth that true love can break the most powerful evil spell. And you know the story of Beauty and the Beast? It points to the truth that sacrificial love can transform the greatest horror. And now comes Jesus. And what a great story. story. He's born in a manger, and the king tries to kill him, but he's saved at the last minute, snatched away and escapes, and then he grows up, and he takes on the great oppressive forces of life and of the world, and they take him on, and they kill him. But no, he's raised from the dead. Isn't that another great story? Great story, isn't it? But here's what the gospel is. The gospel is this. The wonder of the gospel is Jesus Christ is not one more story pointing to those great Jesus Christ is the truth to which all the great stories point. In other words, Jesus Christ comes into the world saying, I am the prince who can break the spell with my kiss. I am the beauty that can transform the beast. I'm the hero of heroes. And I've entered into the world story, and I'm going to slay every dragon, I'm going to put down every villain, and someday, every tear will be wiped away, so come with me. and I'm going to enter into your life and I'll be the hero of your story. So come unto me, all ye who labor and are heavy laden, and I will take pressure off you and I will give you rest.

The pressure's off. And when the pressure's off, you can start to live with courage yourself. Don't be foolish and slow of heart to believe. Believe, let us pray. Thank you, Father, for showing us the true story of Jesus is what we need. no other story but the story of Jesus. No other story but the true story of Jesus. Not just a compendium of teaching, but the story of Jesus. This is the thing that we most need. Show us how to bring it into our lives so that we're going to be able, finally, to have the pressure taken off of us, and we can start to live really heroic lives because Jesus is the hero of every story. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
