Matthew chapter 5, verses 17 through 20.

Do not think that I have come to abolish the law or the prophets. I have not come to abolish them, but to fulfill them. him. I tell you the truth, until heaven and earth disappear, not the smallest letter, not the least stroke of a pen, will by any means disappear from the law until everything is accomplished. Anyone who breaks one of the least of these commandments and teaches others to do the same will be called least in the kingdom of heaven. But whoever practices and teaches these commands will be called great in the kingdom of heaven. For I tell you that unless your righteousness surpasses that of the Pharisees and the teachers of the law, you will certainly not enter the kingdom of heaven. Here ends the reading of God's word.

Luther put it another way. He said basically the same thing that Jesus says here.

A man's word is a little sound, says Luther. It flies into the air and it is gone in a second. But the word of the God is greater than heaven and earth, indeed greater than heaven and hell, for it forms part of the power of God and it endures everlastingly.

You can't talk about the word of God without talking about Luther or without singing A Mighty Fortress. And we've done it all. Now it's time to see what Jesus says. Here in the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus makes a remarkable statement about the Bible, about the law and the prophets. In the mid-70s, Case Western University did an interesting survey. They surveyed all the clergy of America by doing a random sample, and they questioned 7,500 clergy. That's a pretty big sample, so it's a pretty good test. And they asked those folks, among other things, they asked them, Do you believe the Bible is the inspired Word of God in any unusual sense? Interesting question. They didn't ask, do you believe in the infallibility of the authority? They just said, do you believe the Bible is the inspired word of God in any unusual sense? And three quarters of all the clergy said no. And by the way, Presbyterians and Episcopalians, we were way up there with about 89% or something like that saying no. And the Baptists are back there saying, yeah, I knew that.

So what am I doing here?

Listen, in the book of Amos, God makes this interesting prophecy. Behold, the day will come when I will send a famine on the land, not a famine of bread, but of hearing the words of God. They shall wander from sea to sea, from east to west, to seek the word of the Lord, and they shall not find it. now that is an interesting prophecy especially if we try to look at the history of american society for the last 20 or 30 years through it i think we mentioned this last week there was a group of scientists that came together in france in the 1850s and they confidently said science does not disprove god it makes him unnecessary necessary. And slowly, the church in Western countries, in Europe and America, came to believe that. And in the early 20th century, there was a special movement afoot that went like this. The logic of it went like this. Modern man cannot believe in an authoritative word from heaven anymore. We can't believe that the Bible is the written word of God anymore. That's a pre-modern superstitious approach, and if we hold on to it, modern man will not find Christianity palatable at all. And so we have to slowly wean ourselves away from that, and that's what happened. And that's the reason why the Case Western University found what they did in 1975. But here's what's so odd. Here is what is so odd. All the predictions were that the more technologically advanced a society gets, the more human beings will not feel the need for a word of spiritual that tells you what is right and what is wrong and what is the meaning of life. And in the mid-60s, one of the professors at Harvard Divinity School wrote a book called The Secular City and said that the more urbanized a society gets, the more technologically advanced it gets, the more secular it gets. And therefore, there is no need for a word of spiritual authority. Well, the experts have been totally confounded by the 70s and the 80s. One of the things I found interesting, whenever I've talked to students from the People's Republic of China. They often will bring this up to me. They say, what's intriguing is we have always been told that the more technologically and scientifically advanced society gets, the less it needs religion. Religion is a throwback. Religion, especially authoritative religion that has a spiritual word of authority from on high, it is the kind of religion that just dies away. And yet, Chinese students would say to me, here in America is the most technologically advanced society in the history of mankind and in the world today and it is the most religious society. And how does that work?

In the 70s and 80s there has been an exponential growth in all kinds of religions in the occult, in conservative religion in New Age, in Eastern religions in new sex, in fact just about anything

will grow. Every religion has grown in the United States in the last 20 years, except the religions that divested themselves of religious authority in the fear that modern man would be finding it unpalatable. The scary thing is this. When I talk about how all the religions are growing in the United States, I'm not necessarily saying that's good. Because remember what God said in the book of Amos. Because they don't have the word of the Lord, they go from sea to sea, they go from east to west, they're desperate. There's so many kids that get involved in the craziest and the looniest kinds of cults. You talk to them, they seem to have normal IQs, they seem to be normal people. How could they fall prey to this? The sociologists say they don't have a spiritual bottom. They don't have any authority in their lives. They have no direction. And what they've been told is, you're scientific. You're modern. You're Americans. You don't need an authoritative word anymore. And they spend all their lives desperately killing themselves trying to find it. And they go from like little spiritual pinballs pinging around from this philosophy to that philosophy, from this, you know, group to that group, from this society to that society. And a lot of you have been doing all that pinging, A lot of you have been doing that. Why? Christians have always understood this, though. Christians know that human beings, no matter how hard you tell them that they don't need an authoritative word, human beings yearn for a God who speaks. Not just a God who you can know somehow in a mysterious way. Not just a God who you can have a consciousness of, but a God who speaks to us. And all of our oldest stories, in all of our oldest stories, we human beings yearn for people to speak to us. We have animals speaking. You know, all of our oldest stories are full of animals who are talking to us and trees who are talking to us and plants who are talking to us and spirits who are talking to us and beings from other planets that are talking to us. Why? Because instinctively, human beings know that we're not the only speakers in the universe.

and we desperately want somebody else to talk to or go insane. And the question is, is mankind locked in a spiritual solitary confinement, cosmic solitary confinement? There's no one else to speak to but us. The answer, the Bible says, no. The reason that you feel that you're not the only speaker in the universe is because there is a God who speaks. The most plausible explanation for why everybody yearns for a God who speaks is one. Where else would we get the idea? And Jesus Christ tells us here, yes, God speaks to us through his word, through the law and the prophets. Now, before going on, let me just ask you this. Would you take a quick inventory? Do you really know the God who speaks?

If you go to the Metropolitan Museum of Art, there's all kinds of tremendous masters. Go to go to your favorite artist and look at his paintings and maybe you've been doing that. But no matter how much you get to love those paintings and look at those paintings and almost feel that you can almost commune with him through those paintings, you do not have a personal relationship with that artist unless you're talking to him or writing to him or talking to him on the phone. A personal relationship entails words.

You can put your head... You can go out here. You can go outside Mike Chrysler, and put your head under there and see if you can have a personal relationship with Lee Iacocca. Now, you can learn a lot about Lee Iacocca that way, and he probably is very happy to know that you're studying his car. But you can't have a personal relationship with Lee Iacocca unless there are words. And you cannot know the God who speaks personally unless you submit to, believe, and obey the word of God. That's always been the Christian religion. and if you strip out the doctrine of the authoritative Word of God, you don't have the Christian religion anymore because you don't have a God who speaks. Because when you read the Word of God, if you can't say, I know what God says here, if you can't say that, then you don't know what God says anywhere. And you've got a relationship with him like you can have a relationship with Lee Iacocca. You can go out into nature and say, I just feel so close to God. But that's not the way to know Lee Iacocca. By coming out to his car, his creation, and say, I just feel so close to Lee when I'm around. that's not a personal relationship. The only way to know a God who speaks is through his word. Now, Jesus Christ tells us three things about the Bible in this passage. And unless you believe these three things, you can't know personally the Lord who speaks. The three things he tells us, and they're so nice and well laid out here. Number one, he tells us that the Bible is the word of God. He tells us that in verse 18. Secondly, he tells us himself is the point of the Word of God. The Bible is not just an interesting book full of religious stories and regulations and rules. It is all about him. I come not to abolish the law and the prophets, but to fulfill. And thirdly, he tells us that the function of the Bible is not just to be believed and enjoyed, but the function of the Bible is to come into the center of your life and change you. So there's the three points. The nature of the Bible is the Word of God. of the Bible is Jesus Christ. And the function of the Bible is to have it come on inside you and transform you forever. Now let's just look at those three things point by point. Number one, Jesus says in verse 18, I tell you the truth, until heaven and earth disappear, not the smallest letter, not the least stroke of a pen will by any means disappear from the law until everything is accomplished. Hear this. When Jesus talks about the law and the prophets, he's talking about the and scripture. Now, I keep this in mind because a lot of people have no trouble with the New Testament. The Old Testament is the part of the Bible that people have the most trouble with. It's the part of the Bible that has the most fantastic things and the most difficult statements and incidents and so on. What is Jesus Christ's attitude toward the law and the prophets? He says, not a jot or a tittle. That's how the old King James puts it. Not a jot or a tittle will pass away till it's all accomplished. is as strong a statement about the Bible as you can make. A jot is a yod. It's the smallest of the Hebrew letters. It would look to your eyes like a comma. And a tittle is simply like a serif. It means it's just a part of a letter, like the bottom line on the E. And Jesus doesn't just go so far as to say that every single letter and part of a letter of the Bible is true. true, he goes even further and says every part of the Bible will come true. He doesn't just say that it's true. He says it will all be accomplished. See, it's one thing to say the Bible is true, which a phone book could be true, right? I mean, it's possible for a phone book to be without error, is it not? But Jesus says it goes beyond that. It's not just that this is true. It means that this is the way in which God is running the universe. Nothing in this book will not be accomplished That means every prophecy will come true But more than that, every promise will be fulfilled Every warning and every threat will be followed through on And every single command in here Will someday be obeyed Because someday, every knee shall bow And every tongue confess That Jesus Christ is Lord This is not just true This will come true Every jot and tittle, Jesus says Every single letter and piece of a letter

cannot be what? It cannot be broken, Jesus says somewhere else. The scripture cannot be broken. It cannot be falsified. It cannot be written off. It cannot be discounted. Not one part of it because every part of it is the Word of God and on the Word of God, the basis of it, Jesus Christ says, God is running the universe. It will all be accomplished. Now, the attitude of Jesus Christ to scripture is appalling. And when I say appalling, let me explain. I'm going to be really personal but I hope you'll follow my lead. Jesus' attitude towards Scripture is everywhere evident. If you read the Bible, you won't see one or two places where Jesus says, now let me tell you my doctrine of Scripture. But instead, his view of the Scripture is found almost on every page. When Jesus Christ was down and dying, when he was on the cross being ripped apart, he quotes Scripture. when you are in the utmost pain, you cannot reflect. All you can do is act instinctively. And Jesus' deepest instincts, whenever he was in the midst of the worst pain, when he was not just facing death, but he was facing the abyss, the abyss of God's wrath. You can't do anything at a time like that, but cry out from your gut, from your instincts. And what is he doing? He's quoting Psalm 22. He's quoting Isaiah 50. He quotes the Old Testament constantly. He faces every joy. He faces every conflict. He faces every danger. He faces every temptation, quoting the Word of God. His view of the Word of God is remarkable. In Matthew 19, he says, the Creator said, a man shall leave his father and mother and cleave unto his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. says that in Matthew 19. He says, the creator said that, but go back to Genesis 2 and see who said it. And you'll see it was the writer of Genesis. It was Moses who said it. And yet Jesus can say, if Moses wrote it, God said it. It's just like Peter. When Peter was preaching in Acts chapter 4 and he quotes Psalm 2, here's how he quotes Psalm 2. Peter says, and the Lord God did say by the mouth of his servant David through the Holy Spirit, and then he quotes Psalm 2. Did you hear If David wrote it, God said it. If Moses wrote it, God taught it. The doctrine of the scripture that Jesus Christ held on to and all of his disciples was, if scripture says it, God says it. Whatever scripture says, God says. And Jesus' view of scripture gives me a nosebleed. There's a place where Jesus tells this parable. He tells a story about how a rich man dies and goes to hell. And he's down there in hell and he's looking up and he sees Father Abraham in heaven. He says, Father Abraham, I had no idea hell would be this bad. I really didn't know how I was living. And my brothers are still living in sin and wickedness and profligacy. Please let me go back. Let me come back from the dead. Let me appear before them and say, change your ways. You know, let me be like Marley coming on up, you know, with my chains clanking and saying, Scrooge. That's what he's asking in Luke 16. Let me go back and tell them you're living in the wrong way. And Abraham, and this is Jesus, of course, telling the story. Abraham says to the rich man, they have Moses and the prophets. And if they will not listen to the word of God, they will not listen if one comes back from the dead. Christ has that view of scripture, what must he believe about the word of God? He must believe that it is a completely divine book, that it does not have any blemish to it, that it's also a book of tremendous power and it's completely sufficient to get anything done. If he says that a person coming back from the dead will not have as much impact on a person's spiritual heart and life as the word of God, you begin to see what view he had of the scripture. It was central in his life you cannot know Jesus Christ and obey Jesus Christ unless you obey his doctrine of scripture. I want to know what your view of scripture is. Do you believe that the view I just said, that the Word of God is truth undiluted, absolutely clear, absolutely perfect, without any error, a truth that checks internally consistently, a truth that checks throughout, a truth that's totally trustworthy. Do you believe that's a pre-modern and superstitious approach? Don't argue with me.

It was his view. And if you hope to follow Jesus and yet reject what he believed about the Bible and what he believed about the Bible was not a peripheral thing but central to his life and his understanding of the universe and his understanding of God and the way in which he dealt with all of life. If you were to say I follow Jesus but I cannot buy this idea that everything in the Bible is true that I have to obey to it that there's no errors in it you've got a major problem on your hands. Don't argue with me about it.

That's where I got my view. And that's where I hope you will get your view. Where else should you get it from? Religion 101, Dear Abby? Or should you get it from him? Now listen, before I go on, this is so serious. Because don't forget what I said before. Christianity is not like other religions. Christianity doesn't just help say, if you do this and do this and do this, you will become closer to God and you'll sense his love and nearness. Bible says that you can, through Jesus Christ, have a personal relationship with God. And the only way to do that is through words. And the only way to do that is if you hear him speaking to you in his word. And if you reject the Bible as the word of God, there's no way to ever hear him speak.

And that is intrinsic to what it means to be a Christian. When Jesus Christ was transfigured on the mount, a voice came out of heaven. This is my beloved son in whom I am well pleased. is hear ye him, right?

God says, this is my beloved son. You want to love my son? Hear ye him. Listen to his word.

He had a view of the word of God that's very different than the view of religious truth you might get in a lot of the New Age movement today. The New Age movement will say, and it has various approaches, it says you can know God through God consciousness, Beverly Galyane, who's a New Age teacher, she says this, once we begin to see that we are all God, that we have the attributes of God, then I think the whole purpose of human life is to re-own the God-likeness within us, the perfect life, the perfect wisdom, the perfect understanding. And when we do that, we create back to that old, that essential, that essential oneness, which is consciousness, and we know God. Now, what she's talking about is something what Jesus is talking about when he says knowing God. Because what she is saying is truth is something totally subjective. You come inside and you experience it. And then you just know that it's true. Jesus Christ is talking about an objective kind of truth that exists outside of your altered state of consciousness. He says that heaven and earth will pass away, but the word of God will not. That means that the word of God is absolute compared to the mountains. The word of God is absolute. The mountains are temporary compared to that. Put it this way. God's truth, Jesus says, is hard copy. It's harder copy than the mountains. The mountains may pass away, but my truth will not pass away. Paul had this view of truth. Paul says, if an angel of light appears to you and preaches another gospel than the one that you've heard from the apostles, then let him be anathema. You know what that means? It means this. Paul says, if I was preaching here at Redeemer Presbyterian Church and I was preaching to you, you're justified by faith alone and you are only going to be saved through faith and the work of Jesus Christ and suddenly, in through that window, well, there's a parking garage over there, in through this window comes an angel of light and he comes on in and he's greater than any Steven Spielberg movie. I mean, you see, there's light coming from him coming from him and his voice is the voice sound of many waters. And he gets up here on the platform and of course Paul falls down before his glory and he says, don't listen to this man. You are saved only by being a good person and by obeying the Ten Commandments. So don't listen to him. What would you do? Now what Paul says you should do is you should say, oh, I've had this religious experience? Now I have God consciousness? I mean, I've never seen an angel before. This must be true. No, Paul says you should get up and you should grab him by his glorious ethereal pants and throw him out the window. Because Paul says, who cares what kind of experience you've had? Does it square with the Word of God? Because the Word of God is hard copy. It's permanent. It's objective. It exists outside of my altered states of consciousness. It's more objective and more permanent than the mountains and the seas. Heaven and earth may pass away, but the word of God will not pass away till all be fulfilled. Is that your attitude toward the truth? It was Jesus' attitude toward the truth, and you can't know God unless you adopt it.

Now, secondly, Jesus then goes even further and says, do not think that I have come to abolish the law or the prophets. I have come not to abolish them, but to fulfill them. Now, isn't that interesting? talks about the law and the prophets, which is a word that means the whole Old Testament. And he says, I did not come to get rid of them. I came to fulfill them. What does that mean? It means two things, at least. It means many things, but we don't have the time for many, so it means two things. It means, first, that Jesus Christ is the point of the Bible. Never forget this, brothers and sisters, friends, relatives, neighbors, never forget this. The book of the Bible might look confusing. It's like anything when you don't know the jargon, you don't know the terms, you don't know when you first get into it. And it looks like a lot of different letters and histories. It looks like a jumble of different things. Jesus says no. It's a story with a theme. And it's all about me. And he says that. There's a place, for example, when he meets the people, he meets the two disciples on the road to Emmaus after he's resurrected. and he meets these disciples and they don't know it's Jesus yet. And at one point he turns to them and says, how foolish you are and how slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken. And he began with Moses and the prophets and explained to them all that was said in all the scriptures about himself.

He says, all of the Bible's about me. How could that be? Well, listen, friends, you know what the Bible's about? It's about a king. And it's about how the king lived here away and is coming back. The story goes like this. The story goes, once upon a time, God lived on the earth. His kingdom was present in the Garden of Eden. It was a perfect square. The Bible tells us the Garden of Eden was a perfect square as a sign to represent the perfection of that. Because that was the place where the King lived, the King of the universe. And he lived with his people, Adam and Eve. And when he lived there, there was nothing but unclouded joy and fullness of life. But when his people decided to be their own masters, his light and his glory withdrew. And the big issue, the question of the ages, and the question on which the plot of the Bible hinges is, will he ever be back? Will his light and glory ever again walk the earth? And then hundreds of years later, a man named Moses meets God, and God says, build me a tabernacle, and in the middle of the tabernacle, Sanctuary, the Holy of Holies, and in there my Shekinah glory, my kingdom presence will dwell. And the Holy of Holies is a perfect cube, the same dimensions as the Garden of Eden. And when Moses built that tabernacle, God, his glory came down and dwelt in the midst of the tabernacle, in the midst of the people. And yet, it was not the sort of thing that people could go back and see God, because his presence was still dangerous to sinful human beings. And people were We're constantly being stubborn. The people who lived around the tabernacle were constantly being stubborn. We're constantly being rebellious, trying to be their own masters. And eventually, God removes his presence from the temple, and it's gone. And then hundreds of years later, again, another man comes. And this man is a strange man because he says, I am the temple. Destroy my body, and in three days I will build it up again. And wherever he went, Glory and light went. Demons shuddered. Diseases were healed. People were lifted up. And on the night that he died, the veil in the temple that divided the Holy of Holies from the outside was ripped in half. And it not only meant that because of Jesus' death, because he took our punishment for our sins, that it meant that we can go back into the presence of God and into the king's arms, but it also meant that his glory presence, his kingdom power is now at large It breaks out. It's at large. And who is it in? The Bible says it's in us. It's in the church. It's in the people of God who know him because they're born again. And that's why Jesus Christ says, little flock, I have given you the kingdom. And now our lives are transformed because that kingdom power that was in the Garden of Eden and then it was in the tabernacle is now out in our lives. And the Sermon on the Mount is all about how this power transforms our lives. It gives us a new psychology. It turns us in and out psychologically. It gives us a new confidence and power. It changes our relationships. It changes everything about us. And then the Bible says the last chapter is not yet written. Because not only has the kingdom power of God broken out of heaven and into the world, but it's going to eventually cover the entire earth. And Revelation talks to us about the new Jerusalem. And you know how big the new Jerusalem is? It's a perfect cube. The same dimensions of Eden. The same dimensions of the Holy of Holies. That someday the knowledge of God will cover the world and his glory and light will totally take over the universe again. And the entire world will be a gigantic Holy of Holies. It will be a gigantic garden. And it's all about Jesus Christ because he's the King. Will the King come back? He has come back. And he is coming back. And he's coming back. And eventually, he's going to take over the world again. And that's what the Bible's about. says everything in the Bible is about me. The story I just told you is a helicopter ride. I went pretty fast. I went from Genesis to Revelation. It took me three minutes. But the Word of God is studied. When you study the Word of God, what you're really doing is you're getting down on the terrain that I just flew you over and looking at every inch of it. It's a glorious thing. It's the great adventure. And it's so thrilling to read the Scripture because it's the one story that J.R.R. Tolkien says The Story of the Gospel, How the King Has Come Back. It's the one story behind all the stories you've ever loved. It's the one story that's true. It's The Story, capital S. If you don't believe it, you'll go to despair because all the other great stories and songs in the history of the world cannot console you like this one.

And, above everything else, this is the one story that we can actually get in. All the other stories, as wonderful as they are, stories of King Arthur, Robin Hood. All the best stories. All the best movies. They're exciting, but they're out there. This is the one story, the greatest adventure story of all, that we actually get into. It's like singing. It's like songs.

It's great to sing. I wish I could sing like Larry does. But even Larry, as good a singer as he is, when the song is done, it's gone. He lifted the song up. But the gospel is a song we can become part of it. Jesus Christ says, I did not come to abolish the law and the prophets. I came to fulfill. They're all about me. And if you believe him, then it's all about you too. That's not all he meant when he said, I abolished the law. And I got to say this because I'll say it every week. When Jesus Christ says, I abolished the law and the prophets, that means that I came to fulfill the law for you. Of course, every human being needs to fulfill the law, and we cannot fulfill the law. So how can we go to heaven? Jesus Christ says, I fulfilled the law for you. In fact, he's talking to the Pharisees. The Pharisees are worried by now. You see where this comes in the Sermon on the Mount? We've gone through the Beatitudes, and Jesus has told everybody that the kingdom is theirs if they're poor in spirit, if they mourn over their sin, if they submit to God meekly. Jesus has said the kingdom of God is a gift that you can get. And by now the Pharisees are saying, well, what about the law? What about the law? How come you're not telling people to obey the law? And Jesus turns around and says, my friends, I take the law more seriously than you do. Because I came and I fulfilled the law perfectly so that anybody who believes in me can have my perfect righteousness and perfect record in their account and God will accept them on the basis of what I have done for them. Charles Spurgeon, the great Baptist preacher, one day had a conversation with a man by the dock in London. And someone heard it and wrote it down. And here's how the conversation went. Spurgeon says to the man, Do you, my friend, have a good hope that if you die, God will accept you? And the dock worker said, I do. I think I'm as good as most folks I know. know. Well, Spurgeon says, my friend, my friend, I'm scared. I'm concerned for you. Is that the best you have to rely on? And the dock worker said, well, I'm also very charitable to the needy. Spurgeon says, well, but you have sinned in your life, haven't you? Yes, said the dock worker many times. Well, what have you to rely on that gives you hopes of being forgiven? Well, the dock worker said, I'm very sorry for my sins. I've stopped many of them. Spurgeon says, now, my friend, suppose you get into debt with a grocer where you have dealt with, and you cannot say to your grocer, now, look, ma'am, I'm sorry I can't pay for all these goods that I owe you for, but I'll tell you what, I'm sorry for the debt. And I promise that I'll never get in any debt anymore. And would she accept that? Well, the dock worker said, of course she won't accept that. And Spurgeon says, well, she would not accept that, and she would not make your debt good on the basis of that kind of statement. Do you suppose that you can treat the great God in that way when you never would treat your grocer that way? Well, the dock worker says, what can I do? And Spurgeon says, then I told him as plainly as I could how the Lord Jesus had taken the place of sinners and how those who trusted in him and rested on his blood and righteousness would find pardon and peace. That's the gospel, that Jesus Christ has fulfilled the law.

thing. It's not enough just to say, I believe the Bible is the Word of God, and I see that the Bible is all about Jesus Christ and how he fulfilled the law. Thirdly, lastly, Jesus also says, anyone who breaks one of these commandments and teaches other to do the same will be called least in the kingdom of heaven, but who practices and teaches these commands will be the greatest in the kingdom of heaven. Who practices and teaches them will be considered the greatest. that means this time's up search the scriptures and let the scriptures search you it is no good to tell me I believe the Bible's authoritative word of God when you do not make time for you to search the scriptures and let the scriptures search you searching is time consuming it takes time and unless you find time to cash your check you find time to make money Find time for the things that are important. And Richard Baxter, the old Puritan, had this great statement that I'm never tired of quoting. Baxter said, for some of us, on the judgment day, our treasure is going to rise up, and it's going to point a finger at us, and it's going to say, you broke your back for us, you trudged and trudged and spent all your time for us, and now we're just rust and dust, and you neglected the word of God in which true treasures are to be found.

Are you searching the scripture? It's one thing to say, yes, I guess I have to believe what Jesus says. But does the scripture have functional authority in your life? Not just intellectual authority. Do you really say, I have got to know this thing because God is running the universe on the basis of every jot and tittle I've got to get it in my life. Do you search the scripture? And then most importantly, do you let the scripture search you? Do you let it do its light treatment on you? Do you let it come after you? Have you ever heard it really speaking to you? Jesus Christ, on the road to Emmaus, began to speak to the disciples and show them himself in the scripture. And after he vanishes, they turn and said, didn't our hearts burn within us as he opened to us the word of God? Haven't you experienced that? If you haven't, if you haven't sensed God speaking to you in the word, if you haven't sensed his finger coming up and going, of the Word of God, what's this thing? Haven't you felt that? You're reading the Word of God and up comes a hint like this. What's this?

What is this thing in your life? Well, you say, my wife has talked to me about it a lot. Yes, but now I'm talking to you.

You remember when David sinned? He took Bathsheba to be his wife and arranged to have her husband killed. And Nathan the prophet comes and says, David, I have a story to tell you. There was a man who had a flock of sheep and there was another man that had one little lamb. And the man with the flock of sheep went over and stole the one little lamb and killed the owner. What do you say should be done with that man? And David says, Well, how incredibly unfair. How tremendously oppressive. That man should be punished. And Nathan looked at him and said, Thou art the man. ever felt as you're reading innocently some passage in the Word of God, up comes the Spirit and says, thou art the man, thou art the woman, this is you. If you've never felt that, it may be because you have not adopted Jesus Christ's doctrine of the Word of God, or you haven't just put your mind to it. You can't know the God who speaks unless you give your life to the Word of God to searching it and letting it search you. Time's up. Listen, there may be some of you here who have not really ever submitted to the Word of God because perhaps you never saw that Jesus Christ fulfilled the law. Perhaps you have been trying to be a very good person. Maybe you've been coming to church because you're getting more of a sense that I need to be more religious. Jesus Christ is saying, hey you, I am not just a way to help you be better at keeping the law. for those who believe. I have fulfilled the law. I'm the point of the Bible. Give yourself to me. Receive me as your Savior. I'll come inside and change everything. And a lot of us, though, we believe all this stuff, don't we, about the Bible. But are you searching it? Are you letting it search you? You can't know him unless you listen to his word. Let's pray.
