If you're here tonight, you're a leader. You may not think you're a leader. In fact, I'm going to try to sharpen your understanding of the Christian concept of what a leader is. You might think of something rather dynamic and authoritarian and that kind of thing. but you are a leader if you're here and what we do in these monthly meetings is a go into more detail and depth on subjects of Christian living than we could go into in other venues and like worship services secondly we go into certain topics that we wouldn't talk about at all in the bigger venues topics that have to do with Christian ministry and what we're going to do for example, as you're going to see, I'm going to talk about a very important theological concept that actually takes a more nuanced treatment than you could possibly give in a worship service. It takes the time for you to talk about it, ask me questions if you don't understand it, and so forth. Now, what we're going to do tonight, and actually for the next few months, is I want to give you a biblical definition of leadership, a biblical idea of what it is, and then begin to work it out into certain areas of life. And I want to actually do a Bible study with you tonight about what the Bible says a real leader is. And I suggest, I propose, I'm going to try to make the case tonight, that one of the main ways that the Bible talks about leaders is under the heading of stewardship. Stewardship. That's not a really exciting term in English. In fact, when you think of stewardship, you almost immediately now think, the word stewardship except in terms of money. So it doesn't, that's why we have to fill it with, we have to fill it with content because it's a biblical concept and therefore we just can't, you know, get rid of it. Let me tell you what stewardship is. Take a look. You have a two-page handout, do you not? Right? Where it says the steward leader. Okay. In the parables of Jesus,

stewards are mentioned often. Whenever you see the Greek, the English word steward, Oikonomos, which literally means house ruler. Nomos is the word law or rule. Oikos is the word house. And therefore, a steward was the ruler of the house. But a steward, an oikonomos, was a ruler over an estate. Usually a very large house. Very often, many, many people. Many workers. Many people in the fields and people in the home. And therefore, an oikonomos was a manager of a whole lot of people. But the steward was always a slave. A master put over his estate a ruler, a steward, but that ruler was a slave. And over and over again we see in the parables that the reason, here's the great irony, the reason why the steward could be such an authoritative ruler and such a responsible manager was because he was a slave. a steward is someone who's both a ruler and a slave. That is unique, and that is the secret to understanding what it means to be a Christian leader. A steward was both a ruler and a slave. Now, second paragraph. St. Paul uses the word steward as a model for all Christian leaders. So, for example, he calls his ministry a stewardship in 1 Corinthians 9, 17. And therefore, if leadership is stewardship. That means the essence of being a leader is to take some kind of resources and grow them. It's to take some kind of resources. They may be spiritual. They may be personal. They may be human. They may be financial. They may be physical. But you're a leader if some resource is entrusted to you and it's your job, not just to leave it as it is. You know, the wicked, lazy stewards of Matthew 25 where all they do is they bury it in the ground. that's not a leader. So, you know, that's a park ranger or a caretaker, but that's not a steward. A steward takes charge of the resources and yet realizes it's his job or her job not to exploit the resources, but to cultivate and grow them. In Paul's position, he's basically saying in 1 Corinthians 9, 1 Corinthians 4, he's a steward of what? Christian leaders are a steward of at least two things. Look, first of all, he's a steward of the mysteries of God. That's the gospel.

the gospel is something you know. It can change people's lives. And a Christian leader is somebody who begins to realize this isn't just for me, it's for other people. And I have to steward this resource into the lives of others. And then secondly, spiritual gifts. You've got certain gifts. There are certain people that you can talk to that other people can't. Because of common experiences, because of common language, because of common nationalities. Or you have spiritual abilities. you have talents, you can do certain things. These gifts are yours. And see, there's a certain sense in which therefore all Christians, at least when they start to grow, realize that they've got to take leadership. So in summary, look at the second paragraph. On the one hand, a steward is a slave, according to the Bible. As a slave, you're wholly and unconditionally accountable to the master. None of what you're doing is for your benefit, it's for the master's benefit. But on the other their hand, a steward is a ruler. A ruler has real authority over the resources, the goal of growing and prospering them. So the most fundamental definition of a leader is one who cultivates and develops resources, and the most fundamental definition of a Christian leader is someone who develops resources for God's glory, not just for your own. Now, and by the way, one last thing in this little biblical overview. Who's the ultimate steward? I know the word's never used of him, but who would the ultimate steward be? It would be Jesus. Why? Because you're Tim Keller and it's always Jesus at the end of your talk. Well, no, there's more to it than that. Jesus, think about it, is the Lord who was a slave. It literally says in Philippians 2 that he took the form of a doulos. We'll get to that word in a minute, a slave. He was the Lord of the covenant and the servant of the covenant. What does that mean? He's the Lord of the covenant. That is, a covenant is a relationship with requirements, and he's the Lord to whom we relate. But when Jesus Christ became a human being, he came down not just as the Lord of the covenant, but as the servant of the covenant. He comes into a relationship with God. He obeys the Ten Commandments. He fulfills the requirements of the servant on our behalf. So here, because he was willing to come and take all the responsibilities of a servant of God and fulfilled them to the max, to be faithful even unto death. Here's the ultimate master that you can trust. You can trust him because he became a slave for you. See, he became a slave for you. Now, at the heart of this idea of being a Christian leader and being a Christian steward is this concept of slavery. And by now, some of you may be already uncomfortable with me using the word. I'm already a little uncomfortable with using the word. And this is where I think I would like to get something across tonight. In this setting, I couldn't do somewhere else because it takes a little bit of nuancing. Let me tell you two important issues. In a place like New York City, you're going to read a lot of anti-Christian, anti-Bible, anti-Christianity arguments that start like this. Well, the Bible condones slavery, you know, and therefore, and on we go. It starts with a premise. Well, you know, the Bible is, condones slavery. And we now know that was wrong and that was awful. And therefore, you know, obviously you can't trust the Bible on everything. Or, and so usually the Bible condones slavery. And therefore, uh, then it goes off to try to say, you can't follow the Bible on everything. And then go into the subject that, you know, of the person is trying to get to. That's a very interesting point, is it not? People assume the Bible condones slavery, therefore it can't be infallible. Secondly, Murray Harris, who wrote a book called Slave of Christ, a New Testament metaphor for total devotion to Christ, is a book I list here that I read this summer and got a lot of ideas from it. Murray Harris, when he was doing a translation of the New Testament, discovered that even though there is a very, very specific word in the Bible for slave. It's doulos, douloi, slave, slave. And it's used all through the New Testament, and it is a very distinct word from servant. There's plenty of other words for servant. You know what a servant is? Don't you watch BBC? You know, all those wonderful old BBC stories about the great manor house, and you have the servants always walking all the maids and the waiters and all that sort of thing. Servants were menial domestics. But there are plenty of Greek words for servant, but this word doulos is a word that means slave. It means slave. It's a very distinct word. It's used all through the New Testament, and almost no English translation today ever translates the word doulos as slave except one or two places in spite of the fact that it's used dozens of times. It's always translated servant. Murray Harris was going through the New Testament, he began to realize, and he started looking at every English translation and realized that none of the translations would render the word with all of its jarringness. They always softened it to servant. I'm a servant of Christ. You are servants of one another. That's not what it says. Look at some of them. You see the bullet points here in the middle of the first page? Paul calls himself a slave of God, as does James. He calls himself a slave of Christ, as does Peter and Jude. In addition, Paul says that all Christians are slaves of Christ. And not only that, in 2 Corinthians 4.5, it says all Christians are slaves of each other. You're slaves of each other. And then, you don't ever see this in the text because it's always softened. And then, not only that, he actually says in 1 Corinthians 9.19, of a slave of all men. I become all things to all men that by all means I might win some. In spite of the fact, paradoxically, he says only two chapters earlier, don't be slaves of men. We'll get to this in a second. And when Jesus took off his outer clothes and wrapped the garment around his waist in preparation to wash feet in John 13, he was deliberately imitating the behavior of a slave. That's how slaves did it. And indeed, when Jesus calls his disciples slaves, slaves when he tells them that if he has done this for them, they must do the same thing for each other. And he actually says in John 13, 16, about us, about his disciples, a slave is not above his master. Now, why do most translations stay away from the word slave? We know, don't we? And why are we uncomfortable with the very word? It's because when you and I think of slavery, and it's unavoidable now. We are thinking of the race-based African and Indian slavery of the New World. And if you're going to understand what Paul means by it and what the New Testament means by it, you do need to make sure you understand something. That slavery, though, it's never been very good. And I'll get to that in a minute. Paul is always saying to slaves, get free if you can. It's not a good thing. There's no place in the Bible that says slavery is a good thing. And yet the slavery that Paul was dealing with was something quite different than that. look at this last paragraph. We'll do this real quickly. Do you know that first century slavery in the Greco-Roman world, number one, slaves were not distinguishable from others by race, speech, or clothing. They looked and lived exactly like everybody else. Secondly, slaves were more educated often than their owners and often had very, very responsible jobs. Third, from a financial standpoint, slaves made always the same work wages as free laborers. They were almost never poor. In fact, poor people are almost never slaves. If you were a slave, you weren't. They were paid pretty well. Fourth, people could sell themselves into slavery to improve their economic condition, which means you could sell yourself into slavery to a very wealthy person and live a lot better than you were before. Fifth, by the way, slaves could also accrue enough personal capital to buy themselves out, and many slaves owned slaves. Fifth, very few slaves were slaves for life. Almost no one was. At the very, very most, people could hope to get out of slavery within 10 to 15 years, and almost no one was a slave past their 30s. Contrast that with the kind of slavery you and I are thinking about. When you and I think of slavery, we think of race-based slavery and permanent slavery. You know, there's a place I'll show you in a minute where Paul says, he writes in 1 Corinthians 7, Are you a slave, he says? Don't be discouraged, and if you can get free, do it. He would never write that. You and I are thinking about the plantation. 18th, 19th century slavery, he couldn't say don't be discouraged. He never would do that. Nor could he say, well, if you can get free, do it. Because the only way to get free was to take your absolute life in your hands. See? In other words, in the first century, slaves lived like everybody else. They made the same amount of money as everybody else. And no one was a slave permanently, almost none at all. That's incredibly important to understand. It's important to understand because the only way to understand that when in the Bible, in the New Testament, it never says slavery is a good thing, but why is it that the Bible always assumes... Why doesn't the Bible go after slavery? Why doesn't it say we've got to stop slavery? Because it was a much more complex phenomenon. The Bible is against kidnapping. It's an absolute sin. And that's the reason why when you get into the new world, race-based, kidnapping-based, permanent slavery of the 18th, 19th century. That can't be squared with the Bible at all. And that's the reason why Christians in the 18th, 19th century realized we've got to stop it. That's the reason why Christians in the first century didn't because the institution of slavery wasn't really the same thing. Very important to understand. So when someone says, well, you know the Bible condones slavery, you say, what kind of slavery are you thinking about? However, having said all this, the question now remains, now that we've clarified a little bit, it says slave. I'm a slave of Christ. I'm a slave of my brothers and sisters. I'm a slave of all people. What does it mean? Top of the next page? Very important. This is the one thing that was actually all slaves have in common, and this is the key. A slave can't quit. A slave's obedience is unconditional. Servants, hired people, domestics, everybody else, if you really don't like what the master's telling you to do, you can say, I quit. You know, my compliance is conditional. But a slave's compliance was unconditional. And that is absolutely crucial for us to understand, especially in Western society today. We talk about servant leadership. What's that mean? Well, most of us think, well, it means unselfish and instead of trying to, you know. But do you realize when the Bible says that we are slaves of Christ. We are slaves of each other. We are slaves of other. What it's really saying is your commitment to God is unconditional. Your commitment to your brother and sister in the church is unconditional. You don't have consumer relationships with God and consumer relationships with brothers and sisters. You don't. You don't say, well, I like this church and I like the people around here because they're meeting my needs, but I don't like this person, that person, so I just stay away from them. You can't do it. See, the trouble with the word slave, if we really translate it the way the Bible says, we're immediately thinking of abuse and we're thinking of coercion. We're thinking of violence. And, of course, by the way, I'm sure there was that in slavery even in Greco-Roman times. I mean, any scholar that tells you anything about first century slavery says, of course, there were abuses. But that's not the heart of what the Bible means when it's talking about slavery. And this is what it means. You are not qualified or able to be a Christian leader unless there is an unconditionalness about your relationship to God and even to the brothers and sisters around you. That's absolutely crucial. Look at this wonderful passage where Paul kind of summarizes what the Bible teaches about slavery. He says, are you a slave? Don't let it discourage you. But if you're able to become free, do it, which just goes to show there's no place where the Bible says slavery is a great institution. But look at this.

Now what does he mean? Here's what he means. Two things. First of all, he says we are freed from slavery. What kind of slavery? Look up these verses sometime. Or if you want to, an 11-page version of this two-page handout is available to you on the website. They're all spelled out there. We are freed from guilt and condemnation? Secondly, from slavery to sin? Thirdly, from fear of death? Fourthly, from slavery to the world and people-pleasing, needing to please people? You say, well, theoretically. But yes, OK, but, you know, make your... appropriate your freedom, you see. If you are a slave of Christ, you're not a slave to anyone else, he says. If you're a slave of Christ and you're unconditionally... fulfilled committed to him. Now who cares what people think? Who cares what else happens? You're not prepared to be a leader. You're not prepared to be a leader unless you are experiencing your freedom in Christ. The only way you can be free in Christ is if you're an absolute slave to him. Only if you're a slave to him will you not be a slave to everything else. You know, see, even selfishness, Paul says in 1 Corinthians 5.15, is a form of slavery. So Paul's point is this. there is a deeper kind of slavery which all Christians, slave or free, are freed from. The real slave masters, the things that will really grind you into the ground, that's what he's trying to say here, that dehumanize and exploit you and rob you utterly of everything you have are sin, hopelessness, guilt, and death. So Jesus has freed us from them. On the other hand, secondly, we are freed from the only liberating slavery, which is freedom, which is freedom, freedom, slavery to Christ. And of course, you've heard me say this before if you've been around Redeemer, and if you're here, you've probably been around Redeemer. And what I'll say here is rather simple. If anything but Jesus Christ is your functional Savior, if you look to human approval, or if you look to power, or accomplishment, or money, or anything else besides Jesus as the main way in which you know you're worth something. You may say, oh, I believe in Jesus. I believe in the gospel. You can tell me all that. But if the main reason why you know that you're significant and loves you or your children or your career or anything like that. You're a slave to those things. Only if you really understand the gospel and you stop trying to justify yourself through other things, but you really, really, really, truly are justified by grace and faith in what Jesus Christ has done. To the degree your heart has experienced that, to that degree you are free from these other things driving you into the ground or making you afraid or scaring you into, which is a form of slavery. Jesus is the only master that if you embrace him, will satisfy you. And if you fail him, will forgive you. See, if you live for your career, your career is your slave master. And if you fail your career, it'll punish you the rest of your life. Your career can't die for your sins, but Jesus did. Now, and if you're going to be stewards of other people and other resources, you're going to be leaders. You have got to get yourself free from all these other kinds of slavery. You've got to be a slave of Jesus and only a slave of Jesus and nothing else. And so the bottom line, see the summary here? The bottom line is freedom living for yourself leads to slavery and slavery to Christ leads to freedom. That's what the New Testament teaches. which is freedom, which is living for yourself, which leads to slavery. And the slavery to Christ leads to freedom. Now, here's the practical implications of the metaphor. And we're going to work these out. So I have two minutes here, and I'm going to just take two minutes. We're going to work these out the rest of the year. But first of all, what this means is we are Western people, by and large. Not all of you are, but you're living here, and so you're imbibing the culture. And therefore, we tend to negotiate our relationships. We don't like this idea of unconditional obedience. So what we say, I mean, read Bonhoeffer's book, Life Together, sometime. And he says your relationship to your brother and sister in Christ is unconditional. Well, that doesn't mean you can let them do anything to you. What it really means is you can't give up on people ever. That's what it means to be a slave of your brother or sister. They've been bought with a price, and you've been bought with a price. And you can't just hang out with people that are meeting your needs. That's selfish. selfish. See, you're brothers and sisters. You've got to find some way of helping them out. You can't just drop them. But primarily, what it means to be a slave of Christ means that whatever he tells you must do, you do it, whether you like it or feel like it or not. And anything he sends into your life that you don't get or understand, you accept, whether you understand it or not. seen over the years is plenty of people say, I'm a Christian, but when God doesn't do things in their life the way He wants them, you want Him to do it? Or if you read something in the Bible that you think offends you or something like that, I don't do it. Or I walk away. Have you really made Him Lord of your life? Have you really made Him Master of your life? And there's four questions at the bottom that I would say are questions by which you can judge whether or not you've really, really made yourself a slave of Christ and therefore you're ready to be a leader. And we're small group, your huddle, about two of the four, but let me just show you the four and then I'm done. To treat Jesus as a master means four things. Obeying him unconditionally, submitting to him unconditionally, relying on him totally, and trusting in him totally. The first test question is, am I willing to obey whatever God says about this life area, no matter how I feel about it. See, if you say, oh, I obey Jesus everywhere that, by the way, I had my middle son, Michael, always used to say, I used to say to Michael, Michael, I'm your father, you do it. And he said, Dad, I'd be happy to obey you as long as you could help me make sense of this. Why do you want me to do this? And I used to say, honey, if you only obey me because it makes sense you know, you're not really obeying me. You know, obey me because I'm 40 and you're 8. You know, obey me on the principle of things. You just have to go round and round on him. He said, I'll obey you as long as it makes sense. You have to obey Jesus whether that passage in the Bible makes sense or not. There it is. Secondly, test question, am I willing to thank God for whatever happens in this area, whether I understand it or not? That's even harder. This doesn't mean that God is happy to send tragedy. thing that happens to you. Oh, that's praise God, God's will. Rather, it is to believe that God in his overall purposes for your life is always acting wisely and redemptively and that you need to embrace the situation and trust him in it. Thirdly, test question, relying. Is there something in this area I'm relying on more than God for my hope and meaning in life? And fourthly, are there problems or limitations in my life I think are too big for God to remove? And these are ways of finding out whether you really are digging down. Are you really negotiating a relationship with God

Christ. Now, you've got questions, right? And these should be questions that have arisen from either discussion about the presentation and the material or the material itself. What do you want to, any questions? Here you go. Hi, my name is Amanda. I hope this is not too loud. Just as we were having a discussion about the question of obedience, the question came up of What are some practical ways in which we can discern whether the test of obedience is coming from the Lord versus simply other people or even unjust sources? And then also how we can just, yeah, basically that practical question of discernment. Well, now, I don't want to, I hope nobody thinks I'm making light of the question, but it's very simple. The word of God.

Okay, next question. no what I mean is to say it's not a matter of obedience if it's not in the Bible in other words if somebody comes and says I think you should marry her that's advice I think the Lord has laid on my heart that you should marry her I'm sorry that's still advice

somebody came up to Charles Spurgeon once and said the Lord has laid upon my the Lord told me that next Sunday the sermon here. And Charles Spurgeon said, well, if the Lord had really told you that, he would have told me too, and he didn't. And I'm sure he's right. In other words, if it's not something I discern as being the Bible's directive to me, then it's not a matter of obedience. Then it's wisdom, it's advice, it's trying to figure out, is this the right job to take? Is this the right person to date? Should we get married? That kind of thing. So it's not a Actually, I'm glad you asked the question. Even though I'm making a little bit light of it, I'm glad you asked the question because I think in the Christian community, people are always struggling with, I just think this is God's will and I would be disobedient. I say, how do you know it? Well, it's a feeling. Or my friends say, well, then, sorry, it's a wisdom issue. You may be right. You may be wrong. You ought to say, Lord, I'm going to try to make the best decision. Well, don't you? These people always say to me. But you have to really discern God's will. Well, it's a guess unless it's in the Bible. The Bible says, thou shalt not commit adultery. no guesswork, don't commit adultery very simple, tithe don't steal, don't lie all those things, there's enough stuff that it really is a matter of obedience it'll be hard enough for you to rather than just pile on top of all that strong feelings in your heart and that kind of thing, I know what you're talking about people are just saying, how do I know that this is God's will or not, if it's in the Bible otherwise you can't know and you just make your best guess does that sound unspiritual. I really do think it's a way of freedom. You see, Redeemer is a Presbyterian church, and our confession is the Westminster Confession. And in chapter 20, there's a little chapter in our Westminster Confession, chapter 20, called Liberty of Conscience. And in it, it says, we will not bind people's consciences where the Scripture has left them free. See, if the Scripture says you've got to do it, then we can come in and say, you have to do it. but there's no ifs, ands, or buts. This is an obedient thing. If the Scripture hasn't said it, then it's a matter of judgment and discernment and wisdom, and you can't know for sure until after you've done it. Okay? Now, if somebody wants to piggyback on that, please. This is a big issue, and you can do it. So, who's else? Up here, just stand up. In the back, go to the mic. Oh, you're there. Okay. Sorry. Hi, Tim. Hi. My question is, at one point, But can we start to call our, for example, our small group members to be obedient? Some of them are new to the faith. Some of them may not be Christians. That's a great... Well, I think, first of all, you need to... You can always call them to obedience collectively. Do you know that? You notice I do it every week. I mean, I'm always saying, if Jesus is who he said he is, and he is, and if he said this and he did, then we have to obey it. So you speak collectively and you can put a lot of pressure on people to speak collectively and you should. And there's no hemming and hawing, you just lay it out there. Now I would say that when they are really, really new, be slow before you start to say, well, are you doing it or not? Be careful and slow. But at a certain point, I think you, how do you call them to obedience? patiently but persistently and privately usually, okay? Gently, hopefully persuasively, but persistently, you know, gently, patiently, but persistently and privately. So, you know, it sounds very weird, but I mean, I don't know why. I mean, why don't I even think this? And you're going to say it's weird. Whenever I train pastors about going to see people, The sicker the person is, the shorter and the more frequent the visit should be. Because if you're there for a long... If the person's really sick and in pain and you come in for more than five minutes, it's just terrible. You mustn't do that. They feel like... Whether you know it or not, you're putting pressure on them to be alert and to look at you and talk to you and all that sort of thing. But on the other hand, if you don't come back... They still need your presence. But it can't be very... It can't be... You know, you can't sit down for 20 minutes. If a person's really, really sick, you need to get there a lot, but almost three minutes, five minutes, and get there twice a day. It's something like that with brand-new Christians, or new Christians are kind of tender-type people. You need to gently mention things, and you need to do a lot of teaching, do a lot of drive-bys, but not just sit down and say, well, are you getting to it, and I'm not going to leave until you tell me you are. Other questions? Okay. Oh, not giving up. question is, could you elaborate a little bit more about not giving up on somebody? See, I'm glad that was helpful because that's helpful to me. When you're in an unconditional relationship with somebody, this does not mean, and I made a mention of this, it doesn't mean you let the person trample all over you. It doesn't mean there's no boundaries. In fact, the most unloving thing you can do to someone is let them sin against you. Think about it. It's never good to encourage sin. Every time a person sins, they put a little mark on their soul. It makes it easier for them to do it again. And therefore, if someone is wronging you, the most loving thing you can possibly do is to stop them. And sometimes the most loving thing to possibly do is to put a limit on, you know, you change the relationship. Limit it. Say, I can't meet with you like that anymore. I can't do this or anything for you. But that's not giving up on them. There's a place, again, I'm applying a principle from here into here. I remember hearing John Stott, yes, that's right. John Stott says if you are showing mercy to someone in the sense of doing things for them, and they're kind of abusing it or misusing it, there's a tendency to say, well, I've had it, and you can't do this to me, and this isn't right, and this isn't fair, and you pay them back by withdrawing. And he, at one point, he says, if you're being merciful to someone and they're abusing your mercy, change the form of your mercy. But don't stop your mercy. Change the form of your love, but not your love. At one point he says, I remember in the teaching, he says, let mercy limit mercy. And he's using, you know, he's using the words in two different ways, in a sense, in the same sentence. But he's trying to say, change the form of your love. And maybe the form of your love will be kind of tough or to push back or something like that. that. I knew a woman once who, I mean, here's a case that her father wasn't, she was a Christian, her father wasn't a Christian. So, in some ways, it doesn't quite fit. But she wasn't a Christian. She was a Christian. Her father wasn't. And he was an abusive man. Absolutely abusive. And, you know, he must have been in his 70s or something like that. Or maybe something like that. And he was abusive on the phone to her and everything like that. And finally, at one point, which I remember she said, in fact, I think this is written up in the book Bold Love by Dan Allender. It might be in there. Where she said. Dad. I love you. And I'm your daughter. And I'm never giving up on you. And I'm never disowning you. And I'm always going to love you. But if. The minute. The very minute. You start to abuse me. I'm not going to give you a second chance. I'm going to hang up. But I want you to know. I love you. And I'm not even really mad at you. I'm actually doing it. Before I get mad at you. And. Next Saturday night. I'm going to call you right back. Like I always do. Because you're my. You're my. My. My father. And so she would call him up and if he started to abuse her, he'd just click. And he was sure that meant anger and she wouldn't call back, but she called back on Saturday and she was his night. And what she did was, she said, it was the only way to love my father in a way that wasn't making him worse was to put these limits. So not giving up doesn't necessarily mean you just, you know, you spend, it's like a black hole. You spend an enormous amount of hours and time and effort and you let them walk all over you and exploit you. and you keep giving them money and they keep misusing it and you keep giving them more. That's not right. That's not what I mean. But that still means. See, when Paul says don't be a slave to any man, but then two chapters later says I'm a slave to all, that by all means I might win some. You know what he's saying. He's not in a fleshly way a slave to a person's approval. See, if you let someone abuse you, that means either you need to be needed or you need the person's approval or in some ways it's a failure to be a slave of Christ slave to them. However, if you're a slave to Christ, you're not a slave to them. In that sense, you can be a slave to them in the right sense, which is, I'm unconditionally committed to you. That's what he's saying. Great. Somebody else. Go ahead, Dave. Suggestions for developing, being stewards of your spiritual gifts. We're going to unpack this idea of stewardship. Like, for example, next month, partly because the beta groups and because we're going to be emphasizing in the church. Next month, I want to talk about the fact that you should be an evangelistic steward of your relationships. In other words, you live in a certain place, you've got a neighborhood, you've got certain friendships, and are you being a steward of them for the sake of the people around you? But I will definitely get to spiritual gifts later. I can just tell you in a really, really, really briefly that you find your spiritual gifts with a combination of internal reflection and external validation. In other words, I don't know if any of you have seen spiritual gift inventories where you sit down and you take these tests, and at the end it says, here's your spiritual gifts. All that does is measure what you like to do. And that's one measure of your spiritual gifts. What do you like doing? I mean, there's no way God's going to give you a spiritual gift of counseling if you utterly hate it, or a spiritual gift of speaking if you utterly... Okay. But on the other hand, you've got to get external validation. That's a lot harder because there are people who think they have the gift of singing, but nobody has the gift of listening to them, for example.

And it's what we call the external and the internal call when it comes to ministers we would say, how do you know you're called to the ministry? Number one, there's an internal call. That is, I want to preach. And then there's the external call. Somebody else thinks you're good enough to ask you to do it. And if nobody asks you to do it, then you might want to or you might think you're good at it, but you're not. So there has to be a combination of external evaluation from your friends and the people who see you and say, this is what you're good at, and internal. And they don't always necessarily line up. There has to be a kind of overlap.

but you don't have a passion for it, that might not be your gift, at least not now. And, yeah, I do believe that there's times and places. My own evangelistic gifts were absolutely dormant until I moved to New York City. I never in a million years would have guessed I was good at talking to non-Christians about Christ. Is that hard to believe? You know, now it's something I not only love doing, but also something I think I'm good at, it looks like. But until I moved to New York City, and I was 38 when I moved here, no, it just was totally dormant. I'm not sure why. I think it's because I wasn't in a situation that brought it out. Either I wasn't in a situation where people were affirming it or that I found I was able to do it and enjoy it. But it's got to be a combination of what are you passionate about and what do people say you're good at. But we'll talk more about that later. I've got a lot of stuff on that I really want you to see. And I'll give you one of the things you need as leaders of any sort in a church is you need to be able to help people discern where God is going. And see, spiritual gifts is more than just simply helping them understand what are your, you know, are you good at teaching? Are you good at counseling? It helps. It's also a way of discerning where God is leading you. Should you go into this job? Should you move away from New York? I really do think there's a way to help you help people discern these kinds of things, and I'll give them to you later in the year. I don't know what month yet, so you've got to come every month. You never know. Okay, other question. Yes, right here. Chris. I'm in luck because it's the same kind of question that David asked. This year, I've only got, what, ten of these? This is the first one. So we have another nine. And that was one of the things I wanted to do. Do you know there is a book? And you might say, well, what does suffering have to do with stewardship? What does suffering have to do with stewardship?

There's a book that I'm pretty sure is out of print. Though maybe some of you have seen it. And the book's all right. The book's all right.

and it's... But the title meant a lot to Kathy and me. The title of the book is Don't Waste Your Sorrows. Very interesting. How can I be a steward of my troubles? And how can I be a steward of my pain, even? And we don't ever think, ever, ever, ever, in those terms. And I guess, in a way, I think we do have to... We do have to... ...think in those terms. I'm only going to tell you what you have to do, but I will come back to it another month. Some other month this year, okay, Chris? In other words, I don't have to give you the whole answer. It's just too big a subject. But basically, you have to, we have either a stoic, well, actually, there's a place in Hebrews 12, which is a great passage, maybe I'll do a little exposition of it, where it says, my son, do not faint under the Lord's discipline, nor murmur. means is, the two things we tend to do is we try to stoicize ourselves and we try to get so hard we don't let it bother us or else we kind of go to pieces. And I think that what you really want to do with people is to say there is a way of accepting, no not accepting, it's a bad thing. God doesn't like suffering and pain. He is going to unbelievable lengths to get rid of it. So God is not a masochist And we don't say Oh pain's good for us But there is a way Of receiving suffering Instead of just saying No When is it going to go away When is it going to go There's a way of receiving it Not embracing it Not That's a masochism Not you know Running and running And screaming Until it stops But rather saying How do I receive this In such a way That I become A vehicle for grace into my own soul, into the souls of people around me. There really is a way of doing that. So it's a way of kind of receiving it, which is a very, very, you're going to have to help. One other thing I'll just give you. This is the end of my, this is the last question. Years ago I read a book on how to help people with disabilities.

And I was reading it because I had a number of blind people in wheelchairs. I was 23 years old. 25 years old, excuse me. And I was a new minister and people were coming to my church and I just read like crazy because I had no idea what I was doing. And it was a really fascinating book because it said what you have to do with people with disabilities is you have to help them find the dialectic between resistance and acceptance. On the one hand, they have to resist their disability. They can't just give up and say, oh, I'm blind. I can't do a doggone thing. You have to push and push and push and push and do absolutely everything they possibly can and still be blind. Push against it. Go way past what they thought they were capable of and still be blind. But on the other hand, there's acceptance, and that is, I'm blind. I mean, there are things, if I try to do that, I'll get killed. And I have to stop grumbling and griping and accept it. And he said, if the person falls too far over into the resistance area, then they're filled with anger and they fall too much into the acceptance era.

of giving up and they wither and die. And you have to help them into that dialectical tension between resistance and acceptance. And I think I've been using that ever since, especially with ongoing suffering. It's one thing when somebody's in a temporary time and then you basically hold their hand and you just love them until it goes away and it will go away. But we're talking about stuff that's probably semi-permanent or might be permanent. And then they have to have, they have to find that balance. So that's my best shorthand version of how you, as a friend and shepherd, might be able to work with somebody. But I'll give you a lot more resources later.
