Today's scripture is found in 1 Peter 1, verses 13-17. Therefore, with minds that are alert and fully sober, set your hope on the grace to be brought to you when Jesus Christ is revealed at His coming. As obedient children, do not conform to the evil desires you had when you lived in ignorance. But just as he who called you is holy, so be holy in all you do. For it is written, be holy because I am holy. Since you call on a father who judges each person's work impartially, live out your time as foreigners here in reverent fear. The word of the Lord. Now the Bible says that when we become Christians, turn over a new leaf. We're spiritually raised with Christ, it says in Ephesians 2, Philippians 3. Paul says, I want to know the power of his resurrection. So Jesus Christ's resurrection power comes into our lives. That's quite a statement. And we have to ask ourselves the question, what does such an empowered life look like? And in these weeks after Easter, that's what we're doing. We're asking that question, what does a resurrected life, spiritually resurrected life look like? And we're looking at 1 Peter and 2 Peter. We're taking passages out of these two epistles because there are so many important themes within the epistles, these two in particular, that are crucial to help us understand what it means to live the Christian life. A couple of weeks ago, we looked at the new birth, and the newness of life that brings. Before that, I mean, after that, we looked at the idea of being exiles or resident aliens, which means we're supposed to be both offensive and attractive at the same time, and pilgrims. And that was also another very important theme that helped us understand what it means to live the Christian life now. Today, we come to a well-known, very important theme, and one we have to come to grips with, which is holiness. We're called to be holy. Very, very prominent. He who called you is holy, so be holy in all you do. Now, that's actually not an easy, this is actually a difficult term to get a hold of. I mean, in our modern culture, both the word sin and the word holiness, both those words are almost never used anymore except ironically. So we talk about sinful chocolate. But if you actually start talking about sin and saying people are sinners, this is sin, we need to be holy. If in contemporary society you start talking about sin and holiness and you're not talking ironically and say you need to be holy, you need to stop sinning. People get very quiet and very upset. Very upset. That anybody would take these words seriously and not ironically. but we need to take it seriously. It's obvious that we need to take it seriously. So let's ask the most fundamental questions. What is it? What's holiness? How does it grow and develop in us and why is it possible to be holy? First, what is it? Now let's look at verse 15 and 16. Just as he who called you is holy, so be holy in all you do. be holy because I am holy. Now, it's perfectly right when you and I think of holiness to think of morality, Ten Commandments. As God is faithful, so you shouldn't lie or commit adultery, Ten Commandments. As God is loving, so you shouldn't kill, you shouldn't steal. So we almost always, when we think of holiness, we think of right living, living, moral living. And that's perfectly true because to be holy certainly means that. It doesn't mean less than that. But I want to show you it means a lot more than that. The concept of holiness is way, way more than that. If you want to understand what holiness is, you should notice the quote. Peter quotes, for it is written, that's a quote from the Old Testament, be holy because I am holy. And he's quoting Leviticus. There's a lot of reasons why that's strange to but he's quoting Leviticus. There's four or so times in the book of Leviticus that God says something like this, be holy because I am holy. What's important to understand though, is the book of Leviticus is not talking so much about holy people. It doesn't give you the 10 commandments. It's not laying out all those things like Deuteronomy does and Exodus and all that. It's talking about holy things. So you see, if you go to the book of Leviticus, context from which Peter is talking, you're going to see there's all sorts of things that are called holy. Tables are called holy. Utensils, pots are called holy. Now, right there you begin to realize that holiness can't just mean morality because what's a moral table look like? But what more frightening, what does an immoral table look like? I mean, would you want to eat at an immoral table? No, it doesn't work. Why? So it forces you to ask, what's the word holiness mean and holy mean? And the Hebrew word originally means separate, set apart. Separate or set apart. Now, right away, you begin to realize why God can say I'm holy. Because he is utterly apart from all other beings. He is totally unique. he's in his own category, set apart, he's totally separate, he's unique in his superlativeness, there is none like him. So in one sense, the word when God says, I am holy, means I am utterly set apart, there's no one like me, there's nothing like me. All right, well then what does it mean to have a holy table or a holy pot? And the answer is, it has been set apart for God's exclusive use. If you have a table, you're eating three meals a day on it, but you want your table to be holy, holy, you don't read it to 10 commandments and try to get it to behave differently. You give it to the priests, they take it into the tabernacle, and now it's only used for the fellowship offerings and for the other things. It's only used for God and for worshiping God. And right there, you begin to realize when Peter quotes Leviticus to tell people how they should be holy, the implications is this is going beyond. It's not less than, but going beyond morality. I'll read you one great commentator, one person commenting on 1 Peter, brings it out. I'll read it carefully because you'll see how he reasons. He says, of course, this is a commentary on this passage in 1 Peter. He says, of course, to be holy means moral behavior. But these words in Leviticus 11 that Peter quotes are not given in the context of moral commands and prohibitions to people, but the context of ceremonial restrictions dealing with clean and unclean things. For belonging to God, living on his terms, reserving ourselves for him, delighting in him, obeying him, honoring him, these are more fundamental than the specifics of morality. There's your definition. What makes the table holy? It belongs to God. What makes you holy? Not just your moral, but that you belong to God. Now let's think out the implications. There's tremendous implications. First of all, we see that the core of holiness is intensely personal. It's intensely personal. It's possible to be moral for a lot of reasons. You can be moral out of a sense of duty. You can be moral because it makes you feel good about yourself. You can be a moral good person because you are fulfilling social and family expectations. Or you could just be a pragmatist. Honesty is the best policy. You could just be saying you should be moral because it's good business to be moral. If you're moral and you're truthful, You don't get caught. You know, you don't get sued as likely and all that sort of thing. So you might just be practical. But in all those cases, what's going on? You're being moral, roughly speaking for selfish reasons. But there's another approach. It's possible to be moral and not belong to God because belonging to God has to do with the heart. There are only, there's very few people in my life and probably in yours, that you could actually say your claims of love are so great on me that I really belong to you. I really can't live my life the way I want. I belong to you. You know, in my case, it's my wife, my children. But you see, the claims of love are so great. I belong to them. And because I belong to them,

there's a lot of things I do that I would rather not do perhaps if I didn't have this love relationship. And so in other words, to belong to God

means that I am not, it means that I want to delight in him. Well, let me read you the list. To belong to God means to live on his terms, reserving ourselves for him, delighting in him, obeying him, honoring him. I'm doing it because I just, I want to, because I need to almost because of my love. So it's an intensely personal thing. And by the way, just quickly, quickly. Do you see why it's not enough to be moral? It is not enough in God's eyes to be moral. I've had many people say to me, oh, you're admitting then you can be moral without believing in God. You're admitting it. You're saying without believing in God, you can still be moral. Okay. So why do I need to believe in God in order to be moral? As if that's the big thing to be moral. all. Let me give you an example. To take the relational out, imagine a woman. She's kind of a poor woman in many ways. She's a single mother. She has one son. She loves her son. She teaches him how to live. She says, I want you to always care for the poor. I want you to always tell the truth, and I want you to always work hard. Charity, honesty, industry. Care for the poor, to always tell the truth, work hard. And she, of course, does everything for him. And even though she doesn't have much in the way of marketable skills, she works her fingers to the bone in order to raise him and to put him through college without any debt. But the minute that he gets out of college, he gets that degree, gets a good job, he calls her and says, well, mom, I'll probably send you a Christmas card now and then. I may talk to you now and then. But I really don't want to have much to do with you. I don't really need you. Why, she says. says, well, I always take care of the poor. I always, you know, I'm honest. I, you know, I always work very hard. So I'm doing all the things, you know, you want me to do. What that's really, what's important, why do I have to have a relationship with you? I don't really don't want to talk to you anymore. Would you think that's okay? Of course you wouldn't think it's okay. You would find that repulsive. That would be horrible. Well, if there's a God, if there's a God, you owe Him everything. You owe Him everything. And that you should sense that you belong to Him. And for you to say, well, what's really important is that I'm moral. It's like that guy saying, what's really important, I'm doing what you're saying, Mom. I don't need to have a relationship with you. Maybe if there is no God, that's one thing. But for you to say, I don't need God. God isn't important. I've got what's really important. I've got morality. But you're not holy. You're not holy. holy. In fact, you see, God looks at someone who is moral but not holy and has got to feel considerably worse than that mother did. See, first of all, what's intriguing about this quote out of Leviticus, the understanding that holiness is to belong to God, not just simply to be moral, is it gives you the core of holiness, which is intensely personal. Second, by the way, the core of holiness is not just being intensely personal, but now you have a principle applying holiness to all of life. Because what's the opposite of belonging to God? To live for yourself. So what does it mean to be holy? To be moral? Sure. There's a lot of rules. Lots and lots of rules. But more than that, it means to no longer live for yourself. That's the principle of holy practice. That's the principle of holy living. You no longer live for yourself but for God and your neighbor. There's a place in the Bible that holiness. It's 1 Corinthians 6.19. You are not your own. You're bought with a price. You're not your own. You're bought with a price. There it is. You're bought with a price. We'll get back to that in a second. You're a recipient of grace. Free grace. Therefore, you are not your own. You never in any situation live as if you're not living for your sake. You're living for God's sake. For your neighbor's sake. You're not living for yourself. You're living for God This goes across the board. One of the things about Leviticus, and it's extremely interesting that Peter would quote from Leviticus, when you consider that God, if you read the book of Acts, if you know something about Peter's life, that God had to practically clobber Peter over the head to say, it's not necessary to keep the Levitical ceremonial laws. You know, Peter was still saying, you know, he was still at one point, because he was Jewish, you had all these rules how you dressed, and he was saying Gentile Christians need to do this too, or I can't be with you. And God gives him a vision and says, no, no, no. In Jesus Christ, all those laws about what you eat, what you dress, how you, everything, those things have been all fulfilled in Christ. You are clean and acceptable in him. So it's intriguing that Peter would quote Leviticus when it took him quite a while to get the message that all of those ceremonial regulations are now fulfilled in Christ. Well, why is he going back to Leviticus? Because the principle of holiness is the same. And that is that every part of your life has got to be holy. There is no part that shouldn't be holy. And to be holy is to belong to God. The particulars of Leviticus are fulfilled, but not the basic principle. So, for example, go to Ephesians 6. Ephesians 6, there's a place where Paul their daily work, their daily job, on the job. Now, is there any commandment that tells you in the Ten Commandments how to do your work? No, there's a commandment about resting, but not about work. But here's what Paul does. He says, when you're doing your daily job, don't work for your boss. He calls it don't work according to eye service. Don't work for your boss and don't work for yourself. If you're working for your boss, then you will only work hard when your boss is noticing. In other words, when your boss isn't there, you won't. When your boss is there, you'll only basically do what you have to do to give your boss a good impression of you. If you're working for yourself, you'll only do what's necessary to make the money or to make more money. But what if you're working for the Lord, Says Paul. What if. Your main. Motivation. Is to say. I. Notice. You. Seeing. Me. Lord. I. To. Please. You. Want. To. Use. My. Gifts. In. The. Best. Possible. Way. I. Want. To. Do. An. Excellent. Job. I. Want. To. Help. Other. People. I. Want. To. Care. For. Your. Creation. In. Words. What. If. You're. Working. a lot. It's from your boss. It transforms your work. Why? Because you're not living for yourself. You're not working for him. You're not working for yourself. You're not working for her. You're not working for the boss. You're working for God. If you apply that to every single area of your life, if you don't treat people, classes and races of people who have oppressed your class or your race, and you don't treat them for your sake or their sake but for God's sake in the image of God? The reason that Peter quotes from Leviticus is he's figured this out. To be holy means you belong to God, therefore you don't live for yourself, and that principle of not living for yourself can be applied everywhere, even places where there's no moral rules. That's what holiness is. Then secondly, how does it develop? I mean, isn't that something? The more I've thought about this, comprehensive. And you say, oh my word, how in the world do you grow? And obviously holiness is not something you can just switch on like this. How does it develop? Well, it develops three ways, mind, will, and heart. Those are also here in the passage. First of all, the mind. Look at the very beginning. Therefore, with minds that are alert and fully sober, set your hope on the grace to be brought to you. When Jesus Christ is revealed. Wow. First of all. He says. If you. To be. With. Minds. That. Are. Alert. And. Fully. Sober. Set. Your. Hope. On. The. Grace. To. You. When. Jesus. Christ. Is. Revealed. Let's. Unpack. That. First. Of. All. It's. Obviously. Talking. About. Something. You. Do. With. Your. Head. The. the intellect is engaged. It says minds that are fully sober and are alert. The word sober is an interesting word. It means to be very judicious. It means to be extremely reflective and careful. It's actually a word that would characterize the mindset of a scholar. You know how scholars are? Lots of footnotes, careful definitions, lots of qualifications, you know, very, very, very careful, very reflective. The other word though, and if any of you have ever James Bible, where it says minds that are not only sober, but alert. Literally, it says in the Greek, it says, gird up your mind. Now, it's actually a pretty vivid metaphor. In those days, when men and women wore flowing robes, everybody did, not only the women, the men. And when you had to do something that was very active, if you had to run someplace or if you how to work somewhere, what did you do? You would pull up all your skirts and you would tuck them in your girdle, which is your belt. And therefore, to gird up your loins was a way of saying get ready for action. To gird up your mind is a vivid metaphor, which means though you should be thinking and thinking and thinking, you're fully sober, you should also be thinking unto to action. You should be thinking out the implications of your faith very carefully, but to the end of action. And that's really, for example, what Paul was doing in Ephesians 6. In Ephesians 6, which I think is just fascinating, he was taking, he was sitting down and he was saying, okay, let's think out the implications of what it means if you're not living for yourself, but for God, how does that transform your work? And he's thinking it out. And it's a brilliant a piece that's helped people for centuries now. Peter here is saying, that's what you have to be doing. To be holy is not first a matter of the will. You've got to think. You have to think intensely. You have to use all of your minds. If I believe this, look, the grace to be brought to you when Jesus Christ is revealed, that's talking about the fact that at the end of time, Jesus Christ is going to come back and he's going to make everything new. He says, think about the implications of that constantly, constantly, constantly. What does it mean to live for Him? And let me give you another example of this. In Philippians chapter 4. Paul says. You should have the peace of God in your heart. You shouldn't be anxious. You should be trusting God. Trusting God. You belong to Him. So just trust in Him. You shouldn't be anxious and upset all the time. He says. Let the peace of God guard your heart. And then he says. So think on these things. Think on these things. That's very close to what. Think on these truths. These things that you believe. As a Christian. Very close to here. Where it says. Set your hope. On what. Set your hope means. Get your hope. Get your confidence. Get your peace. By thinking. What you actually believe. About the universe. So. Put it like this. Are you a Christian. Christian, do you know that the Bible says that God made this world to be a perfect paradise, a place of perfect love and glory, but because we turned away as a human race, everything is broken, but God, in the form of Jesus Christ, has come into this world and at infinite cost to himself, died on the cross, so that someday he will return and he'll make everything right again. Do you know what that means? It means that no matter what happens to you, it's going to be okay. You believe leave on Him and you die, you'll be with Him. The worst thing that can happen to you, death, is the best thing that can happen to you. And at the end of time, everything's going to be right. Everything's going to be okay. Do you have peace right now? Do you have hope? Do you have confidence? Or are you anxious? It's because you're not thinking. If you're a Christian and you believe this stuff, and you're going around constantly under stress and anxious, it's because you're not thinking. You know, the idea that, well, you Christians have faith, but I'm a thinker. An incredibly self-serving little narrative that says that, well, yes, of course, I know people believe all this Christianity stuff. But I'm a reasonable person. I'm a thinker. Paul and Peter, the whole Bible says, uh-uh, uh-uh. Listen. You will not be holy. You will not have peace. You will not be able to live the Christian life unless you think. Think. It's a lack of thinking that gives you a lack of peace. It's a lack of thinking that gives you a lack of holiness. Think. That's the first thing. it engages your entire intellect. Christians ought to be the people who are most willing to think. I mean, if you talk to a typical New Yorker and you say, well, what do you believe? He'll say, well, I believe this life is all there is. I don't think there's a God. I think this is it. He'll say, so you believe that love is a chemical, basically, right? The feeling of love is an illusion. It's just a chemical reaction that helped your ancestors survive. And when you die, that's it. And eventually nobody's even gonna be around to remember anything you've ever done because the son is gonna die and there won't even be anyone around to, you know. So nothing you do in the end makes any difference and love is an illusion and when you die you're right. And very often a New Yorker will say, oh, well, if you're gonna think about it like that, of course you're gonna be depressed, but I don't think about it all the time. I just try to live one day at a time. In other words, see, you don't believe in God and you're telling me that you are getting your peace of what you believe about the world? Well, Christians are different. We get our peace from thinking out the implications of what we believe. So you gotta use your head. Secondly, you've got to engage the will, of course. I have to get here. As obedient children, this is the will. See this? As obedient children, verse 14, do not conform to the evil desires you had when you lived in ignorance. Now, what this means is, yes, there is a bottom line here. To be holy means you obey. Notice, by the way, it says, don't conform to the evil desires you had when you lived in ignorance. He's talking to Gentiles who didn't know the law of God, didn't know the Ten Commandments or any of that, and now they do. And because they do, he says, now you must conform to this. So there is a matter of the will. There's an engagement. But don't forget, even here, even in this passage, where he says, as obedient children, he doesn't just say as obedient subjects. as obedient children. He's talking about the kind of unconditional,

absolute, trusting obedience that children give to parents that they rely on and love. To really give you an idea of what I mean here by this kind of obedience, let me do a little story. In 2 Samuel 23, a story from the Old Testament, that when David became king, the Philistines were really worried that David was going to turn Israel into a strong nation. So as soon as he was crowned king, they invaded. They were trying to destabilize the nation of Israel. Came in, invaded. David was forced to flee into the wilderness. He had his hand-picked men with him, his mighty men. They were kind of an elite group of soldiers around him. But he was out in the wilderness and the Philistines occupied big parts of the country, including Bethlehem, which was David's hometown. And he was out in the wilderness and certainly David was feeling pretty downcast. And one day in the midst of, he was hot, I guess, and he was tired and he was discouraged. And one day in the midst of his men, he said, oh, if only I could just drink one cup of water from that wonderful well by the gate of Bethlehem. It was not a command. It wasn't even a request. It was just a sort of a sigh and a hope. And partly because, of course, he was from Bethlehem and he knew what great water it was, and he was probably hot. But also, he was longing for the day in which he would again be king of his entire land and he would be able to go where he wanted. And so he was just longing for that. Three of his mighty men looked at each other, didn't say a thing. And then they stole away and they put on their swords and they put on their armor and they got a water jug and they fought their way through enemy lines down to Bethlehem, got to that well, drew the water. Probably one guy drawing the water while the other two were fighting everybody off at the risk of their way back. Come in front of their King, their King David. And they give him the water. He is absolutely stunned. He knows they risked their lives. He knows. And essentially they gave their lives. Cause when they went to do that, they knew he knew that they knew that they might not come back. They'd actually given up their lives. They were only lucky that they still had them. They gave them up. And you know what he did? He poured the water out on the ground before the a Lord and said, I'm not worthy of this kind of devotion. And of course the men felt, I'm sure, very, very honored because the king said, your devotion is so great that even I, the king, am not worthy of any. That means a lot of different things. But here's what I want you to see. If you are really devoted to somebody, if you really love them, if you belong to them, if you would do anything, remember? If you would do anything to delight that person, honor that person, then there's really no difference to you between a command, a request, and even a sigh. You don't look at all the rules and regulations, which ones do I have to keep? You know, if somebody comes to me here in New York and says, Pastor, I'd like to, I'm really trying to obey the Bible, I'm really trying to obey the law of God. It's a rarity for somebody in New York to come up to a pastor and say that. And I say, great. And he says, I'm thinking about this tithe thing. You know how the Bible says that you're supposed to give away 10% of your income to charity and other things? Yeah. Well, here's what I need to know. Do I have to do this before or after taxes? It seems like before taxes wouldn't be really fair. I think after taxes would be better. Oh, my word. How far are we from this? Do you see? That's the wrong question. What are you doing? What are you asking? What do I have to do? Look how far that is from these three men. anything that would bring joy to the heart of the one they're devoted to, anything at all. They went way beyond the commands. They went way beyond the requests. They were guessing pretty much. If you are to be holy, you not only belong to God and you stop living for yourself and you start to live for God and others and you think all that out, you also so not only obey the things that you do know, but you look for other ways to please him. You do it out of delight. It doesn't even feel like obedience, but it is. Okay, lastly, the heart. Now, the thing it says at the very end of the passage is this. Since you call on a father who judges each person's work impartially, live out your time as foreigners here in reverent fear. Now, this creates a little bit of a dilemma because this term, the fear of God. Live in the fear of God. It's one of the main themes of the Bible. And it actually constitutes another important theme that we need to unpack at length if we're going to understand what it means to live a Christian life. And so that comes up again in another passage in a couple weeks. Therefore, I'm not going to give you a full-throated understanding of what it means to live in the fear of God. But I can give you at least enough clues to make my This is the heart of what will motivate you and create that desire in you to please him and delight in him and to give yourself to him. The word fear means not to be scared that you're going to be destroyed. In fact, you can even tell that from this verse because notice, even though Peter's talking about judgment day, judgment day, wow, impartial judgment day, it's your father who's going to be the judge that day. Isn't that something? a father who judges. You know, fathers can be pretty strict. Fathers can be, you know, have standards. But fathers don't destroy their children. Fathers love their children. And so this doesn't mean to be scared that you're going to be destroyed on the last day. But here's what it does mean. The word fear in the Bible means awe and wonder. Internal awe and wonder. It means not just doing things that you have to do because you have to do them out of a sense of duty, but awe and wonder at something. Something, your heart is engaged with something. What is it? The next two verses, which we didn't print and read, but here's what they are. Verse 18 and 19. Four, your heart should be engaged with awe and wonder. Four, you know that it was not with perishable things such as silver or gold that you were redeemed from the empty way of life handed down to you from your ancestors, but with the precious blood of Christ, a lamb without blemish effect. Your heart needs to be filled with awe and wonder looking at the fact that Jesus Christ's blood, his sacrificial love, has been shed for you. That's the key. Just for a moment, think about this. In John chapter 17, verse 19, I think it is, Jesus is praying to his father the night before he dies. And he makes this amazing statement that ties all the things together we've been talking about. He says, Father, for their sakes, looking at his disciples, he's about to die for them. For their sakes, I sanctify myself that they might be sanctified. Jesus says, I sanctify myself that they might be sanctified. What does sanctity, that's holiness. I sanctify myself. Sanctity, holiness. does that mean does Jesus mean I'm going to make me I'm going to become moral of course he's not saying I'm going to become moral he was already moral he's perfect what does he mean when he says I sanctify myself I give myself away I set myself apart I'm not going to live for myself I'm going to live for them I'm going to die I'm going to be tortured I'm going to be lonely for them see there's a sense in which he says I'm giving myself away so that for them for their so that we might be sanctified. Uh-oh. He loves us, and he wants us to know the joy and the freedom of not living for ourselves anymore. The claustrophobia of living for ourselves, the crampness of it, the narrowness of spirit, the infinite regress of spiraling down on yourself, saying, I'm not getting what I deserve, and what about him, and what about her, and what about me? Jesus says, I love you so much, I want you to know the freedom of being so flooded with love that you don't need that anymore. You don't do that. You don't live for yourself. You live for God. You live for others. And so what he's saying is, I'm giving myself away. And when you see him doing that, when you stand, you might say, if you see from his head, his hands, his feet, sorrow and love flow mingled down. The precious than silver or gold. When you sense the preciousness of it, you see the ocean of that love and you stand on the shores, as it were, and you hear, you think about it. To the degree you see Him giving Himself away for you, sanctifying Himself, to that degree you'll be able to give yourself away to Him. It's as simple as that. When you see Him sanctifying Himself, living for you, you'll be able to live for him. Right? To the degree you see what your sin cost him, to that degree you will be holy. In the Old Testament, God's holiness is awesome. But in the New Testament, God's holiness in Jesus Christ giving himself away, his holiness is gorgeous. It's gorgeous. So look at it until it makes you holy. Let's pray. Now, Father, we ask only that you'd make us holy as you are holy. I guess for us today, the idea of being holy sounds cramped, sounds stuffy, doesn't sound like much fun. It's actually worse and better than that. It's not just a matter of saying no to certain things and living by certain codes. It's giving ourselves away out of love, out of devotion. devotion, it's saying your wish is my command, your sigh is my command, it's belonging to you because we see that you gave yourself away for us, you sanctified yourself so that we might be sanctified. Lord, help us to live this sort of joyful life of self-giving because you joyfully gave yourself away for us. We pray this in Jesus' name, amen.