Because of all the little sermonettes that you are subjected to in the media. For example, not long ago I heard John Denver give us his one-word capsule of what the true meaning of Christmas was. He says, the meaning of Christmas is people. There was an ad in the New York Times recently that said, the meaning of Christmas is that love will triumph and that we will be able to put together a world of unity and peace. And it occurs to me that when I look at what all these little sermonists seem to have in common, they tend to run along the lines of that well-known song that was the theme of the Live Aid concert five years ago. We are the world. We are the people. We are the children. We are the ones that can bring in a better world, so let's start giving. Now, that message is not just a bit different than the real message of Christmas, but it's diametrically opposed. In the 1985 Live Aid concert, when you had all those famous musical personalities up there singing, we are the world, we are the children, we are the ones to bring a better world, so let's start giving, Bob Dylan looked very uncomfortable. Afterwards, there was a press conference, and he explained why he felt so uncomfortable. And he said flatly he felt uncomfortable singing that song because humankind cannot save itself, he said. And at that point, Bob Dylan, though he wasn't talking about Christmas at this spot, was giving us the message of Christmas, and it's the message of this text. The message of this text is that the world can't save itself. That's the message of Christmas, and that's the purpose of this particular passage. Now, you know, I tried to point out, chapter 9 starts with a word, nevertheless, however, and therefore, you have to look and see what happened in chapter 8. Otherwise, you can't understand chapter 9. And at the end of chapter eight, we read, distressed and hungry. They will roam through the land. When they are famished, they will become enraged and looking upward will curse their king and their God. Then they will look toward the earth. See, they're looking toward the earth and they will see only distress and darkness and fearful gloom. And they will be thrust into utter darkness. Nevertheless, those, there will be no more gloom for those who are in distress. The people walking in darkness have seen a great light. See, what's happening is at the end of chapter eight, we see the Israelites and they're crushed under famine and they're crushed under all sorts of crushing social and psychological problems and they're running everywhere. They're looking to the great intellectuals. They're looking to mediums and spiritualists and channelers and are trying to find an answer to their problems. And what is the answer to their problems? The more they look at the earth, they see more and more darkness. And then verse 9 starts, nevertheless, there is a light to dawn, but it's not a light that can be developed. It's not a light that comes that we develop when we realize that we are the world, we are the children, and we begin to give. It's a light that's not developed, it's discovered. That's the message of Christmas. It's from beyond us. It's God intervening. It's God erupting into

light from the outside. Yes, things are very dark. There's utter darkness. We keep looking, we keep looking to the earth, we keep looking, and it gets darker and darkness nevertheless. Now, the reason we have to look at this passage, and we're going to spend actually this weekend, next week on it, is because passages like this that you hear all the time at Christmas become like incantations after a while. They're invoked, they're recited to create a feeling, to create an atmosphere when actually the meaning of the text is denied or at least ignored. And it's not hard at all to go to Christmas celebrations in which this text is sung or read or stated and then you get a we are the world message which is completely contradictory to the purpose and the theme of this passage. This passage says, the people who walked in darkness have discovered a great light. generated it. They haven't ignited it. They haven't kindled it. They've discovered it. What does this passage tell us about the meaning of Christmas? And here you are, friends, that you're one millionth person telling you the true meaning of Christmas. But let's do it again. And let's look at the scripture for once. Let's look at the Bible and what the scripture says here. First, Christmas means that the world's a dark place. Christmas is a message of unparalleled hope, and yet Christmas is also telling you something about the world and about your own heart and about your own mind that is sobering and insulting. Would you please listen to this part of the message of Christmas? Jesus is a light. Jesus is a star because the world is such a dark place. And this is what the darkness is. They look to the earth and they see nothing but darkness. The world understands its problems and analyzes them incessantly and understands them extremely well, but cannot find the solution to them. And that's why the world is a dark place. In this spot, we read that the world's a dark place and they went to the mystics, they went to the astrologers, they went to the channelers, and a lot of people try that today in mysticism. We're told by Paul that the Greeks sought wisdom. Well, the Greeks, you see, weren't all that big on mysticism. They weren't big on politics. They were big on the intellect, the mind. They educated themselves, and they said, if the world's going to be saved, it will be saved when a great mind propounds a theory, a great theory. We're waiting for a great mind to propound a great theory. We're waiting for the sociological equivalent of the transistor. We're looking for someone to come along and say, here, this is the answer, and then our philosophical and our psychological be solved through enlightenment? Well, the Jews weren't like that. The Jews of Jesus' time. The Jews were not big on that. They didn't say, well, let's sit around and build bigger and bigger universities and let all the educational elites sit around and decide how things are going to work out for the better. The Jews of Jesus' time believed in politics. And what they said is we need a leader. That's what we need. We have a crisis of leadership here. We need somebody who can rally the forces and marshal people and set the vision and throw off the yoke of the oppressor. We need leadership. And the Greeks said, we need smarter people. And the people that are mentioned here said, well, we need to go into ourselves and we need to look into the earth and we need to find God consciousness. And, you know, if you read the op-ed pages, you'll see it's all the same stuff. If you read the issue in New York Magazine a couple of issues ago on how to save New York. It's all the same things. The mysticism, the politics, the economists, the philosophers, who do we look to? And the more we look to them, we've been looking to them for five or six millennia now, and it's not getting better. After a while, you become aware that you're surrounded by darkness. And the more you look, the more the darkness becomes utter darkness. Now, when I was in college, and I took a lot of inspiration, believe it or not, and I still do today, and I still do this morning, from reading a book or an essay, whatever you want to call it, Bertrand Russell's Why I Am Not a Christian. You might say, well, why do you take inspiration in something like that? Here's why. Bertrand Russell was unparalleled in expounding the nature of the darkness of human life. He refuses to let you get out from under it. He refuses to be sanguine about life. This is what he says. He says, if there's no God, or if we can't know if there's a God, which is the same thing, he says, then consider the logic of your position. Do not try to squirm out of it by singing Christmas carols, he says. If there is no God, and we don't know if there's a God, then we're an accident. You're chance creatures. That's what we are. Accidental collision, we're the result of the accidental collision of molecules. And unfortunately and tragically, we have evolved into creatures with self-consciousness. We're aware of ourselves. And because we're aware of ourselves, we feel that we're more significant somehow, more noble than rocks and slime, but there's no basis for such a feeling. And so here we are with our consciousness, and the consciousness is the result of a meaningless process, and therefore our consciousness itself is meaningless, significant. And what Russell says is you can't be carried away by your feelings. You have to build your life on a foundation of unyielding despair. You have to realize that not only you, but all of mankind eventually will die in the great death of the universe. And that's the way it is. Now, what can you do about that? Once you come to realize the world is dark, once you come to realize that life is dark, well, there's only a few options really, isn't there? One of the you kill yourself. One writer put it this way, nature has accidentally given me for my torment this consciousness which demands meaning and value in a universe that offers neither. But luckily, it also has given me the means of getting rid of it. I return the unwelcome gift. I will be fooled no more. That's one option. Now, there's another option, and you say, well, why not go enjoy myself? There's no right and wrong. There's no meaning in life. So grab everything I can. So go ahead. Eat, drink, be merry, enjoy yourself and love anybody you want. But you better do this because as you start to feel the joy, you better keep reminding yourself. And it won't be easy to do this. You better keep trying to forget. I mean, you should try to forget the fact that it's all an illusion. The joy is an illusion. The love is an illusion. And it'll keep creeping back rob you of any warmth that you could have gotten. And then there's a third way. It's the noble way. And the third way is the way of Russell and the way of Sartre and the way of Camus and people like that, the way of Woody Allen. At least up to, I haven't seen his latest movie, but the intelligent New Yorkers around here still have this basic philosophy. This is what they say. You can't know if there's a God. You can't know about things like that. And therefore, the universe really is an irrational place and it really is a cruel place, but that doesn't matter. talk like this. Here's one writer. Let nature be irrational and merciless and impersonal. I will not. I will have mercy. I will act personally. By whatever curious chance the universe has produced me, now that I'm here, I'm going to live according to human values. I know the universe will win, but I will go down fighting. Amidst all this wastefulness, I will make sacrifices. I will be humane. Let the universe be damned. It sounds very noble, but it doesn't work. because where did you get this notion of being humane and compassionate? Where did it come from? There is no God, right? Or if you don't know, if you can't know if there is one, if you really are just the result of the accidental collision of molecules, then these notions of compassion and humaneness are just the accidental collision of atoms under your brain and skull. And as one writer put it, the very ground on which we defy nature crumbles under our feet. If our standards are derived from meaningless sources, Julian Huxley, who is sort of a kindred spirit with Bertrand Russell, says, all of our science and all of our reason will never be able to answer three questions. One, what the purpose of life is. Two, how human beings got into the mess that they're in. And three, how we can get out of it. Darkness. The message of Christmas is the world, human life, is a dark place. you look for the solutions and the more you think about it, the darker it gets. I have a tremendous amount of respect for Russell and a tremendous amount of respect for Huxley and all those guys who would press you and to say, the world is a dark place. Let's not get out from under it. Don't you feel it? And the message of Christmas is this, that unless God has sent his son into the world, unless God has revealed Himself through the Son that He sent into the world, there is no light for the world. Huxley would say the same thing. Russell would say the same thing. That's the message of Christmas right here. Don't you see? Don't you understand why people do run off to the mystics, they do run off to the politicians, they do run off to the therapists, they do run off to all these people trying to get meaning in life, but there is no light any other place. That's the message of Christmas. Now, you know what that means? It means, first of all, If you do not know God personally, if you have no confidence that Christmas really happened, if you just think it's a nice idea, but you don't really know that it really happened, you don't know that God really sent his son into the world to live and to die on earth for us, if you don't know that, don't you understand that there's really no way that you should take Christmas and use it the way we do to make chirpy, groundless little statements about how if we just hold hands everything will be alright. If we just get together in a circle and love each other will be all right. You can't do that. And here's why. Christmas won't let you do that. Christianity is not sentimental at all. Every other kind of non-Christian philosophy tries to console you like this. It says, Buck up. Things aren't that bad. In every cloud, there is a silver lining. Christianity is far more realistic than any non-Christian philosopher or any non-Christian is really prepared to be. Christianity would never say, say, oh, things aren't so bad. Christianity says things are just as bad as the worst and most pessimistic analyst says they are. Nevertheless! You see? Nevertheless! Christians will not be chirpy. There's no sentimentality. There's no nostalgia about the message of Christmas. Not at all. It says the world is dark. Human life is a dark place. That's where the comfort is if God has actually done always said he'd done. Apart from that, every smart person knows there is no hope. There is no light, don't you see? Unless Christmas is true, there is no light at all, and there's no comfort. So stop being chirpy. That's what Christmas says. Or you can put it this way, you know, when I said stop being chirpy. What you can do is you can put it something like this. If there's a God, God, if he sent Jesus Christ into the world to die for us, if he was born as a baby and he died for us and he rose triumphant over the grave and he's passed through the heavens and now he's seated at the right hand of God the Father and he's ruling all things till he puts everything under his feet and someday we're going to rule and reign with him, if that's true, there's light and there's comfort. If that's not true, there's no comfort. There's no light. And what that means, you see, is that you're stuck here. You've got 80 years or so on earth and you better get all of the comfort and all the joy and all the hope out of these 80 years because you're trapped here. And if anything happens to your health or anything happens to your wealth or anything happens to your comfort, you can be destroyed. But a Christian is different. A Christian has Christmas. And a Christian goes to the truth of Christmas and rehearses it and looks at it and says, if this is true, and it is true, then no matter what happens to me, my real riches are safe. I dwell at rest. My riches are always intact. Everything that's important really belongs to me. Look, Christian friends, are there any of you out here, and I know there are, that's why I'm mentioning this, are there any of you out here who try to deal with your problems in the non-Christian way? The non-Christian way is to deny the reality of the darkness. Oh, things aren't that dark. The non-Christian way is to whistle in the dark, to go out and jog, to work out, to play the piano, to go to a play, to get drunk. You know, in other words, what they have to do is they have to become less aware of reality. They have to deny the darkness. Is that how you deal? Is that how you deal with it? Or do you actually go the other direction, is to see the reality of it and to say, Christmas, God became a child. He died for me, and therefore I am safe. Yes, everything is very bad. Alas. Okay. Now, there's one more thing that Christmas tells us. Not only that the world is a dark place, but also that God brings his light in the most unexpected and unlikely of ways. This makes the message of Christmas even more hopeful. And this is where we want to conclude our thoughts. The whole thing that is so weird about how God sent his son is that he sent him as a child and he sent him through Galilee. You see? See, it says here in the very first couple of verses, in the past he humbled the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, but in the future he will honor Galilee of the Gentiles. Now, some of you know, don't you, that Galilee was despised, and especially Nazareth, the place that Jesus grew up and came from. There was a common saying, can anything good come out of Nazareth? Nazareth, Galilee was, Nazareth was a podunk backwater town in a part of the country that was near the land of the Gentiles and was despised by everyone. Nothing good can happen there. See, a lot of you, for example, are from little towns and you don't let anybody know where you're really from. You live in New York now. You don't want anybody to know you're from, huh? You don't want anybody to know you're from hot coffee Oklahoma, do you? Why not? Because of the sneering arrogance of the world. We know how things happen. Great things don't happen in little towns like that. Great thoughts aren't thought in little towns like that. Great events don't occur. Great people don't live there. If you want great things to happen, New York, LA, Paris, London, Tokyo, the great places. That's how the world thinks. The world knows how things have to happen. Isn't that right? So God makes sure that his son comes as a little baby born to poor parents, born to an unwed mother in a feed trough, raised in Nazareth. Can anything good come out of Nazareth? And the only people invited to his first birthday party are shepherds. And who are shepherds? The most despised of all of the vocations in Israel. so despised, you know, that a testimony of a shepherd was not admissible evidence in a court because shepherds were considered that unreliable. Nobody respected the shepherds. They're the ones who come to his party. Why does God do this? The message of Christmas is, as Paul says, God has confounded the wisdom of the world. God chooses the foolish things of the world to shame the wise. He chooses the weak things of the world to shame the strong. wrong. That's the message of Christmas. Not only that God brings light out of the darkness, but that God does it in the most unlikely and unexpected ways. Why would he do that? So that at every Christmas time, you would know that Christmas is above everything else, a message of hope. For example, let me just draw some applications here to conclude. Number one, it doesn't matter how hopeless your case is. You know, the world is always writing people off. It is so funny to watch people predicting things constantly. Everything from who's going to win a football game to how long the recession is going to last to how we're going to get out of it. People are always writing things off. That kind of person can never change. That kind of situation can never be ameliorated. That kind of condition, there's no hope for that. We're always writing things off. And God, therefore, to bring us off of our high horse, loves to go into situations that look the most hopeless the most unlikely, the most unexpected, and do his miracles. So does it matter where you're from? Does it really matter what you've been through? Does it really matter what you have done? Does it really matter how hopeless your situation is? Actually, it does, because God favors people like you. God loves to start with people like you. That's the message of Christmas. All right, let me give you another application. If it's really true that in order for Jesus Christ to come to be near us, he had to humble himself. He humbled himself. Born to poor parents. Born to an unwed mother. Born into the most biggest backwater area of Israel if possible. If he humbled himself like that, then at this Christmas you have to realize the only way for you to come close to him, the only way, is for you to do the same. him. The only people who are let into his birthday parties are shepherds, people that have no more respectability left. If you this morning pray to him like this, God, you owe me. You owe me because I've lived a good life. I've tried my best. Or if you say, you owe me because I've I've lived a hard life because everything's gone wrong for me. If you come to God saying, you owe me, you're not a shepherd at heart. You come expecting respect. You come demanding respect. And Jesus says, the only ones who receive the kingdom of heaven are the poor in spirit. They're the shepherds at heart. They're the people who are willing to say, just as Jesus Christ came in the most unrespectable, unlikely, and unexpected places, also must strip yourself of spiritual respectability. You can't come to him with your hands full of claim checks or of references. You have to come and say, I have nothing in my hands. Receive me completely, O Father, because of what Jesus did. He lets people like you, and you're a shepherd at heart. He lets people like you in to see his Son. Here's another application. If you're going to follow Jesus Christ, way and came in the ways that the world considers foolish, you have to expect that you will be considered by the world to be a fool as well. Of course. Hasn't that already happened to some of you? Huh? You get converted. And one of the great things about our ministry is there's a good number of you in the last year have crossed the line from unbelief to belief, from faithlessness to faith. Now you turn around and you try to talk to your friends and you say, well, I'm trying to live, as Jesus Christ has taught me to live, I turn the other cheek. I bless those who curse me. I put the needs of other people ahead of my own. I give to those who ask of me. I pour myself out for those in need. And what's the world going to say? You're a fool. It's going to say, you'll have a miserable life. Self-denial and sacrifice and all that stuff, it doesn't work. You're a fool, they'll say. Of course. Because God always brings his light into the world in the foolish ways. He always brings his light into the world in the unexpected ways. And they're going to say, you're crazy. You can either be wise or you can follow that fool's trail. And you will have to decide that. And some of you are actually struggling right now which way you're going to go. Don't go their way. Jesus' way. Does it look so foolish? And yet, my friends, listen. Listen, the feed trough in which he was born and the garbage heap on which he died are more famous than most of the Caesars and Pharaohs, most of whose names we can't even remember anymore. His foolish way is the way to greatness. Count on it. And lastly, the way you can test yourself to discern whether you really believe in Christmas, whether you really believe in it. We're told here in verse 3, it means that you have got a buoyant joy. Yeah. It says here, you have enlarged the nation and increased their joy. They rejoice before you as people rejoice at the harvest, as men rejoice when dividing the plunder. See, in the life of an agricultural people, there were two great moments of joy. At harvest, see, rejoice at the harvest, and when an enemy has been defeated and they're splitting up the plunder. Now, the message of Christmas is this. The world is a dark place, and yet, the coming of Jesus Christ shows us that no one and nothing is hopeless. Do you believe that? The more you think about it, the more a light will dawn over you. It can happen this morning. To think about it, if you believe it, you start to use it in your life. And the more you think about it, you say, wait a minute. it. If this baby has been born, and this is God, this isn't just a child. This is God, and this God is for me. And he has staked his integrity on making me holy and happy, which is the same thing. They always go together. He is going to achieve that in my life. Why am I cowed by any problems? Why do I live my life with my tail between my legs? What's the matter with me? A lot of you would just like to survive in New York City, and yet you can change New York City. And if you don't think that way, you are denying the reality of what Christmas proclaims. It's a refusal to admit that what happened at Christmas really happened. You're treating it as a myth if you live a life like that, if you live a cowed life, if you live a defeated life. The more you think about what Christmas is, the more it dawns on you, and there's a joy. The joy is at the harvest. The joy is when you split up the plunder. Christmas is a message of hope. And that means if you believe in Christmas, you will find that people around you get hope when they're around you. And I want to know if that's happening. You think about that. And during our offering time, you ask yourself, do people get more hope when they're around me or do they just start to lose it? Do you treat people hopefully? Do you look at people and say, there's hope for you in the way in which you regard them, in the way in which you talk to them? Do you also show by your very demeanor there's hope for me? If you believe Christmas, if you believe that what happened at Christmas really happened, then you will find people around you catch hopefulness. And if that's not happening, you need to repent. And you need to come and say, Lord, I believe Christmas. What's wrong with me? I want to pick it up. I want to take it up now until the light dawns. Are you ready to do that? Remember what we said the purpose of offering was? It was a time to come to him and say, I want to pay attention to this truth. He's waiting for your full attention. Who knows what you can be like if you give it to him? Let's pray. Our Father, you have told us here that there is no more gloom or darkness for those who are in Christ Jesus, who accept the message of Christmas. We pray, Father, that for those of us who know it and believe it, that the truth and the glory of it will dawn on us. It'll dawn over us so that the darkness that still clings to so many areas of our lives will be dispelled. Father, we know that there are some people here who need to come to you for the very first time. They need to realize that they have been kidding themselves about the darkness of life apart from you. and that they have to come to you as shepherds, saying, Nothing in my hands I bring, simply to thy cross I cling. Father, we pray that the glory of Christmas will dawn on us, our darkness will be dispelled, and that in these last couple of moments of the worship service, nail into us these truths that are coming home to us from your word, through your spirit, and we pray it in Jesus' name. Amen.
