Okay, for about, is that about right? Yeah. For about 20 minutes or so, I'd like to give you a top-level overview using parts of the handout of our topic. Redeemer has four, for many years we've talked about four ministry fronts. Evangelism and worship, community formation, justice and mercy, faith and work. It's actually a profile of what a mature Christian is. See, what we try to do at Redeemer is, first of all, connect people to God. That means evangelism. That means teaching and training people in the Bible. It means connecting them to worship. We connect people to God. Secondly, we try to connect people to each other. You're not a mature Christian if you're solo. You've got to be part of a community, very active, very participating in community. Thirdly, we connect people to the needs of the city, particularly the poor.

We believe that it's inevitable that a concern for justice, a concern for people at the margins will be there if you understand the gospel. You've heard that. And then lastly, we connect people to the culture. Christianity is not something only for the private sphere, it's for all spheres. And that's the reason why we talk about evangelism and worship, community formation, justice and mercy, and faith and work as for, you know, they're actually, in our organizational structure, they're equal. The leaders of those particular divisions sit together in an exec team and so forth. And this year, when we talk about the gospel in the world, in our three leaders at seven meetings, we're looking, first of all, we did in the fall at the evangelism, connecting people to God. This, tonight, we're spending time reflecting on our ministry of connecting people to the culture, helping people integrate their faith and work. And then the following, last, you know, in our spring meeting, we'll talk about justice and mercy. Now, to give you an overview is, in the now 17 minutes, isn't the easiest thing. And actually, we pulled together some thoughts here, and I'd really like to truly give you a top level by almost talking not so much about the details in the handout, but the headings. And let's start this, by the way, in your handout thing, it's like page three, okay?

The first thing I think it's important to see is that I put down here the inevitability of engaging culture. What does it mean to engage culture? Well, it means to affect the way human in society, in the world out there, to affect the way human life is lived. And it's impossible, in a sense, not to be engaged in culture. There's a certain sense in which the question is, should Christians engage culture? Well, I'd like to start by saying the real question is, how should they engage culture? Not should they, because they do, they are. A real quick example of this, and actually maybe also an example of how eventually I would hope I hope that people at Redeemer would be able to do some of this analysis. There was an article in the Sunday Style section of the New York Times yesterday written by a Mormon, sounds to me like she was an ex-Mormon, who it was, I think it said, I forget, you may have seen it, but it said, single female and Mormon. And basically it was a story of a woman, a young woman still, who had been told all her life you have to save, sex is only for marriage, save yourself for marriage. You can't have sex until you're married. You got to go find a man and get married, and then you can have sex. Otherwise, you can't. And basically, she shows how that just didn't work for her. What's great about the article on a number of levels is that she has heard all the basic arguments. They're not just Mormon arguments, by the way. They're the arguments of all kind of all Orthodox Christians. And she says it just didn't work. Just didn't work. She felt like a child in a woman's body. She felt disconnected and so forth. What's intriguing about the whole, and of course the whole article is basically saying it doesn't work, that you've got to have sex, or you're really not a fulfilled person. Now what are you doing there?

A year or two ago, I read a book by Nicholas Wolterstorff on justice, but he actually had a chapter that was so intriguing, where he was comparing Aristotle and Augustine and the Enlightenment. and what he said, interestingly enough, is he said, under Aristotle, the pagans saw the highest good was friendship love, philos. And the body wasn't that important. Friendship was important. And therefore, it really didn't matter who you had sex with. Go ahead, do it. It doesn't matter. The body doesn't matter. What really matters is the soul and especially, therefore, friendship was considered the most fulfilling love. If you didn't have friends, you weren't fulfilled. fulfilled. And he says, you get to Augustine, and Augustine, being a Christian, said, no, the highest love is the love of God. And the thing that will really satisfy the human heart is not friendship love, but God's love, worship. And if you have that, everything else is unnecessary. And of course, Augustine, as a Christian, said, sex is actually more important because the body isn't bad, and therefore who you have sex with is important. You have to have it within marriage. You get to the enlightenment. And instead of saying friendship is the highest love or God's love is the highest love, eros, erotic love is the highest love because what's most important is that you be absolutely fulfilled. Amongst the Greeks, the body's unimportant. Amongst the Christians, the body's fairly important, really important. But amongst the modern people, it's all important. And sexual love is all important. And what you could see is she had bought that. She was living in that worldview and trying to be chased. It's impossible. She basically had imbibed the worldview. It was inside her. So she writes about how impossible it was. And basically, that's culture-making. When she wrote that article, she was just telling her story. But she's making culture. She's been affected by culture. She's been affected by a particular set of values about what human nature is about and what life is about and what is important and what is fulfilling. Those are philosophical worldview kinds of values that are at the heart of how she's living her life and how she's a poet, how she's writing her poetry, and how she's doing everything. And if you, as a Christian, working out of your understanding, which is different, you're not the pagan, you're not the Enlightenment, you're the Augustinian, basically. Everything you do is going to be affected by that. Do you see that? And therefore, you're making culture. You're engaging culture. You're being affected or culture, but it's impossible to say, oh, we don't get involved with culture. That's just ridiculous. You live there. So the real issue is not whether or not Christians are engaged in culture. Will we do it thoughtfully? Will we do it smartly? Will we be actually, like she was, essentially overwhelmed by and assimilated and eaten up by the culture, or will we actually have a positive influence on it? That's the question. Now, secondly, and actually like, because of the time, actually like you to jump over to page four, where it says different models for engaging culture. Now, I actually, in the last year or so, have found that probably the Christian approach to engaging culture is a set of balances. And therefore, sometimes it's really not all that practical to be negative and to say, here are all the wrong views. Mostly people want to say, that's the right thing to do. In this case, the more you criticize the wrong views, the more the right way sort of presents itself as a kind of balance. In fact, it's actually not that easy to give the right view. It's better to say, here are the cliffs. Don't go over there. You'll fall off. Don't go over there. You'll fall off. Don't go over there. So that you know, just stay on this path. So here's what the four are. And rather than reading them, let me give you four. I don't have very good titles for these, and I'm sorry. But the first one basically says, the problem with, we should try to change society. We should engage culture. We should try to have Jesus Christ affect the way human life is lived in this society. So they're all for it. but they say the real problem is we don't have enough christians and if we evangelize and we just increase the number of christians then society will change then life will be lived more along the lines of what christ wants us to do and therefore we affect society by doing evangelism that's all the church ought to do that's all christians really ought to do that's how we're going to change things we change the world one heart at a time. Now, two problems with this, quickly. One is that what that ends up doing, and many of you have been in churches like this, what that really ends up doing is saying that if you're in full time ministry or if you're a preacher or if you're in some kind of full time ministry, you're doing Christ's work. You're really helping. But everybody else is basically not doing much of anything. You're just out there in these secular jobs. And the best thing for you to do is to give lots of who are really doing Jesus' work. Or quit your job and come do real ministry. And that's a problem because that's not the attitude the Bible has. The Bible sees creation as good. I'll get to that in just a second. And not as a bad thing that you have to escape by just having your soul saved. The other problem, of course, as James Hunter has pointed out in his book, To Change the World, is that culture tends to be influenced from the centers. It tends to be influenced from New York Newark and Hollywood and Washington, D.C. and Boston and the Academy and places like that. And you could have 90 or 95 percent of the whole country be Christian and it not actually affect the way in which society is living its life out. And therefore, it's not enough just to say we just need to have more Christians. That's number one. The second approach, as you can see, which is there at the bottom of the page, for I'm going to call not the pietist approach. The first one, that's called the pietists. They're the people who say all we do is evangelize and save souls. That's all. The second view I'm going to call the activists. And these are the people who say the real problem with society is that the cultural institutions, so they understand the importance of institutions. The cultural institutions, the academy, the government, the, you know, the, you know, the, uh, you know, the media that they are not, um, they no longer believe in moral absolutes. They're not supporting moral values. And what we really need to do is go take them back. We need to march right through, and we need to get to the top of those institutions, in particular government. And this is what you might call the conservative activists who have, in the name of Christ, said we have to get involved in government, we have to put our people in power, and that will help us get back the institution. As some of you may know, There's a couple of problems with that. There's two problems in particular with that, with this more political approach to taking the culture back. One is that, by and large,

culture tends to be formed not so much by politics, but by scholarship and by the arts and by other things. I'm not saying government's not very important, and politics is very important, but it's really probably not the headwaters. If you want an example, try, just imagine in 1904 trying to get sexual harassment laws passed. It wouldn't have happened. Why not? Because the culture had to change before you could have sexual harassment laws. Because by and large, there's a tendency for the laws and government to reflect what's already been happening in the culture in other ways. And the other problem, of course, as some of you may know, is that in the 1960s, the mainline Protestant churches got extremely active in liberal politics, and there was a huge backlash, and huge parts of American population just left, and they were just turned off and alienated from the mainline churches, and therefore they had a huge decline. But in the 1990s, there's a new book out by Robert Putnam called American Grace, and he pretty much shows empirically the same things happened the last 15 years, that when the evangelical church got extremely involved in conservative politics, it has been just as big a turnoff to huge parts of the American population who've responded very, very negatively. And so that's the second. The third, okay. Now I'm going to try to compare these things. The third is at the top of page five. And the best way to say it is the first one says we don't have enough Christians. If we get more Christians, that will change society. The second says we've lost the cultural institutions. We've lost the power. We've got to get back into power. And that will change society. And that will engage culture. That's the second approach. The third approach says something else. I'm going to call this engage culture by becoming more relevant to needs and sensibilities. This is a group that hates the political approach. This is a group that says instead of harshly denouncing people, we just need to get out there and do two things. We need to serve people and be involved with people's felt needs. We need to play down the doctrine and true thing. We need to be deeply involved. We need to contextualize, and we need to make ourselves relevant, and we need to really engage and really live with the people and be out there and not say, look how different we are, but instead really try to be part of the neighborhood and be part of the community.

This, by the way, now, by the way, are all these wrong? Are all these right? Yes. In this case, the danger is over-assimilation. In this case, what you have are people who are afraid of talking about, they don't want to combat, and they don't want to stand up for truth, and they don't want to fight, and they don't want to talk. They want to serve. They want to contextualize. They want to adapt. They want to adapt culturally to the world around. People will say, well, people are postmodern, so we need to have a kind of postmodern Christianity. What does that look like? The danger, as we've known for 100 years, is that when you go that route, is partly true, by the way, partly true, is the danger is losing your distinctives, is the blending in too much, is the giving in too much, is the assimilating so much that eventually people say, why do we need you? You're no different than all the rest of us. I mean, that's the problem, by the way, with the mainline churches, which is people say, you're just, you're not telling us anything we don't already do and believe. You're just a social service agency. You're just a counseling agency. What do we need you for? And there is a great danger in that approach. Here's the last approach. Don't engage the culture at all. Just be the church. The first three approaches say we do want as Christians to affect the way in which human life is lived in society. And the first people say the problem is we haven't done enough evangelism, not enough Christians. The second people say it's politics. We need to get the power in the cultural institutions, moral absolutes. The third say, no, we need to be relevant. We need to contextualize. We need to assimilate. We need to be engaged in the culture. We need to serve people. We need to stop denouncing and love people. The fourth says we should not be trying to affect the world at all. A good example of this, by the way, is the people in this fourth group say abortion is absolutely a sinful moral evil, but they would never say it should be illegal. You know why? These are the Anabaptists, by the way. These are the Amish, the Church of the Brethren. All of these approaches actually have old pedigrees. They would say, when you try to make the world like the church, it ends up only making the church like the world. We shouldn't be trying to engage at all. We should just try to be the church. We should be a great community, a tremendous community of love. Let the world see how human beings ought to live. Let us create small communities of justice and of mercy and of love for one another, and let us be really, really strongly connected. And let's pay attention to us being all that we ought to be. Let's just be the church. Okay, who's right?

If you go through the next section, where it says a worldview that helps us engage culture, don't actually go through the next section, just look up here. There are three very important doctrines. The goodness of creation, creation, the kingdom of God, and common grace. Three things. The Bible says creation is good. It's not something that's just here temporarily and God doesn't care. All that matters is the soul. Creation is good. The kingdom is that God is not just simply saving individual souls, but God is bringing his sovereignty back to the world, which is going to heal everything. is the idea that even though people may not believe in Jesus, may not be Christians, God gives wisdom and God gives a conscience and God gives goodness to people, beauty to people. Lots and lots of great things happen out there. You don't have to believe in Jesus. They're from God, but they don't come through belief in Christ. They just come because God is merciful in that way. Every one of these four approaches is partly right. Why is human society moving further and further away from being influenced by Christians and by Jesus? It is a lack of evangelism. It is the loss of the cultural institutions caring about moral absolutes. It is true that Christians actually are not indispensable. We're not indispensable in this city. We don't live lives of sacrificial service. We haven't contextualized at all. And lastly, we're not the kind of community that people from the outside look inside and say, man, that's human societies that ought to be lived. They're all right, but they, in every case, have an imbalance.

The last one doesn't believe in common grace, and this first one doesn't really believe in Second and third, over-believe in it. They over-believe in it. In other words, see, for example, common grace means God is out there preserving and making the world better, and we can be involved with it. But if you really think that you could redeem and set up a Christian culture and make everything right, that's a triumphalism that's not good. There's a limit, I think, to what God can do through common grace. grace. And so each of these four approaches are unbalanced. They're moving in the wrong direction. And it's because they either have too high or too low a view of common grace. They either have, in many cases, all four of these approaches, by the way, define the kingdom of God differently. That's a big problem there. They can't come to consensus on that. What is the way forward? Again, look up here. Don't look at the end. I'll give you four principles. The first is humble cooperation.

Humble cooperation means that we do recognize common grace and we look out there in the city and we see lots of very important things to do and we know that non-Christians want to do it with us. I've seen William Wilberforce basically said I foresee a world in which there is no more slavery and he said to the people around him do you want that world too then whether you're a Christian or an atheist or a Jew or a Muslim work with me and let's get it done let's stop it that's humble cooperation not saying only we know no humble cooperation he's not quoting Bible versus Adam and saying we don't want anything to do with you because you know Cooperation. Caring about the common good. Making common cause with the others. That's first. Humble cooperation. Number two, respectful provocation.

Christians have to stand up for the truth. We have to say, for example, what Wilberforce said, and that is, my Christian convictions are what's leading me out into this kind of campaign. campaign. You need to be willing to say, it's my Christianity doing this. It's because of my experience of grace that's doing this. It's the gospel. It's the change in my life. There's got to be on the one hand a humble cooperation, which frankly, number one and number two and number three and number four, pardon me, those different groups, one, two, and four don't do. On the other hand, there has to be a respectful provocation, a willingness to stand up for truth and to talk about who we are and not be afraid of who we are. To say, I want to serve the city because we're different. Because we have all these beliefs that are different. That's the reason I want to serve the city. Respectful provocation. That's the thing that actually number three doesn't have.

Third, as we do humble cooperation and as we do respectful provocation, we have got to have a remarkable love and integrity. For example, if you're in business and you want to change the way business is done, you want to be an ambassador for Christ in your business world, two things at least. On the one hand, you've got to be really good, really effective. People have got to really admire you. They say he or she is great at that. They respect you. They feel like, man, you're one of us. You know, I'd like to be like you. You have to be you have to be very well known as not being sleazy, not being ruthless, not being stingy. You've got to be a person of high integrity and love and generosity, and yet incredibly successful.

See, that's a challenge. Otherwise, nobody's going to listen to you under number four. Four, humble cooperation, respectful provocation, remarkable, striking, hard to explain, love and integrity. And then lastly, biblical ingenuity. You have to know how to take the Christian worldview and ask yourself the question, okay, if everything I know about from the Bible, you know, what does that mean? What is architecture then? In what way does God want me to promoting human flourishing through my architecture or through business or through finance or through art or through dance. What is this particular field? What does it actually do for people? And then you have to analyze and say, well, in my field, in what way is that original purpose being distorted? You're thinking worldviewishly about your work and you're finding new ingenious ways of doing your work in ways that reflect the biblical values. If you're doing the first three, the humble cooperation, the respectful provocation, and that remarkable integrity and sacrifice, sacrificial love, and people know that, they're going to listen to you. You're going to change things. They're going to read what you write. They're going to watch what you start.

and so there's a and none of those four main models out there of cultural engagement that are pretty dominant in the country amongst the churches can do all four of those things and so that's there's your top level view and it's awfully fast but now I'm going to ask the lead pastors to come up here and we're going to continue we're going to do a bit of a Q&A and talk about Redeemer's involvement in faith and work and cultural engagement. So guys, come on up here.

We're going to do what we did last time. I got one question for each of them. They're going to talk, and then we're going to have David Kim come and pray right at the end.

We've got Leo and John and Scott and David. Now, I got the questions that the staff gave me, and then I got my own. Okay, first, David Biscroft. David, it's well known that you're the most elderly of the lead pastors. Actually, it's not a separate question. It's tweaked. Anything else you'd like to add? Therefore, you've been here a long time.

Spit it out. How have you seen New York City change? How have you seen New York City's culture change? And could you say that there's any way in which you honestly could see the gospel having an impact on New York City and its culture?

Thank you, Tim. You're welcome. Great intro. You don't have to thank me. I think I have three points.

He said, I've trained you well, Obi-Wan. I have been here a long time. I assume we'll be on Facebook. I think that from a practical standpoint, when I first came to the city to go to grad school, I was living in an apartment right across from Bryant Park. And so the practical change in New York since I've been here, I would walk from the Port Authority to Bryant Park, and the crack vials would literally crunch under my shoes, and you would, at risk of your own safety, wander into Bryant Park. So I think, practically speaking, speaking, the city has changed dramatically from a place that was kind of defined by the Charles Bronson vigilante films to Sex and the City and Friends, where people now who are in their 20s want to come to New York. It has become, not just because of maybe the Giuliani years, but post 9-11, a place that will forever be defined by, is it a safe place to be, which has flourish in ways that has made it a real global city. So I think that has been no small change that has allowed the church to flourish here, the evangelical church, in ways that it hasn't before. Secondly, I think relationally, when I first got here, in terms of the conversations you would have with respect to Christianity, especially Orthodox Christianity, is the Bible true? What about miracles? It's much less antagonistic. The conversations that you would have tended to be more out of that narrative of prove that this is true, kind of the evidence for it, and much more, I think, relational. I think the people who are coming to New York now are far more pluralistic and say, well, if you believe that, that's fine. If I believe something else, that's also fine. So I think that has made your apologetic to people far more relational and based on hospitality. So you have to engage people longer, but they're not looking for a fight. They're far more open to spiritual conversations, and I think that has actually been a positive thing of the ability for the church to kind of incarnate in the city. So it's far less antagonistic. And thirdly, I think, and you just touched on this, at least for me anyway, there's practical, that's relational, and the last would be theological, that processing the world through the creation, fall, redemption, mission thing, the idea that seeing theology as a story, not just a bunch of categories of what is justification or what is atonement or what is redemption, things are obviously important, but I think people trying to process the world through who am I, why am I here, what's wrong with the world, is there any hope, and what's my purpose in life, those resonate with people. And I think that the gospel narrative has a lot of resources for that, and that is far different, at least for me anyway, than it was 20 years ago when I first came to the city. And I think that's where something like CFW comes in, which is both what Tom has been doing from the beginning. Tom Jennings in music. And what Catherine is doing. That is something that is a church based. Cultural engagement. It isn't just. I'm primarily an attorney. Or an opera singer. My identity is. I'm a part of the church. I'm a citizen of the kingdom of heaven. And yet I have to process. What does it mean to be an opera singer. What does it mean to be an attorney. In the context of the church. In that world view. I think that's radically different. Than it was 20 years ago. much more, I may be huddled up in this church, but then I have my job. I think that because the city is safer, because it's more relational, Christians have to think through the implications of creation, fall, redemption, mission in the context of their vocation. So that's why I think it's more important to have something like what Tom Jennings and Catherine do. Okay? Okay. Great. Okay. Thank you.

You're welcome. No, I'm going to, John, and actually, John, you are the youngest of the, you are a mere sapling compared to some elite pastors.

John, you in the January Redeemer Report newsletter, you did a reflection on vocation, the importance of seeing your work in the world as a vocation and as a ministry. And we'd love to have you expand on that because actually not one thing, one of the things that I didn't get to. And it's very important and very important part of what we believe here. So one of my very early conversations of partners about the topic of faith and work integration, the nature of calling, is actually my wife, who was at the time someone I was dating. And at the time, she was a fifth-year associate in her law firm, and it was sort of a time in her life where she was trying to think a little bit about what the next step would be, whether she would sort of press on in her law firm or consider other things that were sort of being made available. And as we sort of talked a little bit about calling and vocation and work, one of the things that sort of became clear to me is that the nature of calling or teaching on calling is very, very well developed for people who are in ministry, not as well developed for people who are not pastors. And I think there are a lot of reasons why. I mean, I think part of it's that historically, like the church has not paid quite as much attention, I think, to vocational calling outside of ministry. where there's, I mean, you have like biblical stories of people who are called into ministry. And so there's a tendency to sort of take those and see those as like that's what real calling is. And everything else is just something else. I also think that, I mean, ministry is a little bit of an unconventional. It's a little bit of an unconventional career, actually. And so I think there is actually a tendency sometimes for ministers to sort of kind of perpetuate a very clear kind of teaching on calling. Partly, it's just sort of to sort of remind us that we're not really weird people and we're kind of okay, even though we've had these very sort of unconventional sort of career trajectories. And one of the things, I mean, in our conversation, I just realized that it's not quite as clear for people who are not ministers. And I thought that was really unfortunate. I mean, I remember one conversation I had with Kyoko where she was telling me about some of the counsel that she was getting from friends of hers who are very well-meaning. And I think it was very sort of well intentioned. But some of the counsel she was getting from Christian friends to her was basically, well, you're at this point in your career, you know, you could continue to like push on and see this as a calling. Or what you could do is maybe ratchet down and do something different because in the future you could get married or you could have a child. And at that point then, you know, you don't want to have as much to give up or something like that. And I thought that was very unfortunate because it was essentially saying that here's a particular calling that you could change your life to prepare for that you may not actually have instead of actually going full throttle in the calling that you currently have which was clearly to be the work that she was doing namely to be an attorney. I know that was a little bit unfortunate. The illustration I sometimes have sort of like you know used with her but also with other people is that it's a little bit like I think the church sometimes has a tendency to look to the Christian CEO and say, that guy's a CEO and he's Christian. That's awesome. Or that guy's like a professional athlete and he's Christian. That's awesome. And yet, I think sometimes there's a failure to realize that it took a lot of support and a lot of work and a lot of energy to actually get to that position of real influence. And I think the church is sometimes not perhaps as good as it could be in terms of supporting that. So the illustration I often give is a little bit like the story of the little red hen. The story of the little red hen. It's a little red hen who aspires to bake a cake and the hen asks all the other barnyard animals if they'll help out. It talks to the donkey and I'm not sure how many farms have donkeys, it talks to the horse, talks to the cat or whatever, and says, do you want to help, I don't know why the hen is talking to the cat either, but do you want to help bake the cake? And the cat says no, we don't And then later on, what ends up happening is, like, the hen makes this cake, and it's really fabulous. And it says, anyone want to help with the cake? And everyone says, sure, I'd love to. And I think, unfortunately, I think sometimes, like, I think in churches, I mean, one of the things I think is great about Redeemer is that Redeemer is actually helping people to bake the cake. And not just saying, like, well, when you're CEO, then we'll sort of, like, come to you and talk to you. I mean, I think that was one of the things that I think is actually a great attribute of Redeemer is that we're trying to support people through that entire process of getting to a place where they can, you know, have, for instance, like more cultural impact and influence and stuff. And the other thing that sort of inspired me to sort of talk about this with Kyo because I actually liked her a lot. And so, you know, there's a little like faith and work integration going on there. But anyway, so that's partly what motivated my conversations with her. good theology can lead to marriage. Yes. It certainly can. Actually, the calling, the idea that every job is a vocation, a calling, is pretty important, very important. And actually, it's both the doctrine of goodness of creation, the values of the kingdom, and the importance, the reality of common grace all inform, all three of those doctrines inform our understanding that the Christian ministry isn't the only calling, that all vocations are vocations, callings. We got Leo here. Leo, you started a church and led a church for 14 years in Houston, Texas. You were in Texas. And we've heard that you're freezing now, just freezing. And you're walking around, your teeth are chattering, and is there any way we can help you? That's the question. so we can't figure out what this white stuff is that just keeps sticking around that's right way do you see just hold on uh actually leo you are in a position you started church you took it 14 years i know i know enough to know that when a church gets to be that old it starts to ask the question have we are we still in a missional mode when you start you say we're engaging the world We're engaging Houston. We're engaging non-Christian friends. We're engaging the culture and so forth. And there's a tendency as a church gets older to turn inward and to look inside and to spend more of our time working on our own needs and feathering our own nest, actually. So the real question would be, what have you learned about how a church can stay focused, and in what way is gospel-centered cultural engagement part of that? Thank you. The first thing that I think about is that if you want it to be something that catches fire long term with everyone in the church, the mentality of every member is a missionary,

then it's got to be something that is embraced from the top down. Or to put it differently, if you want it to be bottom up, grassroots embracing of mission, then it's got to be top down. And it certainly means the pastor, the lead pastors, but really what I mean is this room, the leadership. And it means this tribe increasing dramatically, I think, over time. because from the standpoint of a pastor, we're at a significant disadvantage in that we tend to spend most of our time in the institutional church, and you spend most of your time with the unbelieving world. So what we need is to be a coach, a player coach, coach to help you as you live and breathe in the world, using Jesus' terminology, to see that world as a fishing pool because we're all fishers of men. And so I think it's a together thing that we are together committing to embracing that fundamental vision that you see all over the scriptures, that we exist as people who've been transformed by the gospel to take the gospel. And, you know, so there's other things that flow from that. It means that we fight against a mentality that we've arrived. You know, there's different ways we do that. We tend to talk about, well, is that person a committed Christian? Christian, and certainly there's an appropriate use of that, but an inappropriate use of that is to think in terms of the Christian life as progressing in such a way that we have distanced ourselves practically from the day-to-day reality that we're very messed up people. and hopefully you will see in each of us that awareness that we have not arrived that we are very flawed messed up people who desperately need today a savior even more really than we did years ago and when we as leaders all of us now maintain that mentality when that's the oxygen

it's not about a we versus them out there, the committed Christian versus the poor lost sinner. It's, wow, this is what we all need. At Christ the King, we tended to talk about that, think about that most through the lens of worship. One of our common mentors, Ed Clowney, I think he's the one that coined it, doxological evangelism, to think of the fact that we were all created to worship God. We are worshipers by nature. It's not a question of are we worshiping, but what are we worshiping? Whom are we worshiping? And we're all in the same boat in that respect.

And therefore, I have a point of identification with everybody. It's just a matter of entering into their life, of loving them. So for me, evangelism mission is most about loving my fellow human being with a deep respect for the reality that we are all worshipers. And I haven't arrived. We're all in the same place that we need daily to come back to the one for whom we have been made through the bridge of Christ. The last thing I'd say is to lean against, and I think we're going to have to really be relentless in this in terms of leaders, lean against the false dichotomy, the mutually exclusive way of thinking that things like community, discipleship, are opposed to evangelism or they are separate categories. In other words, over time, a church tends to say what we really need is community. And, of course, every church needs community. What we really need is discipleship. We need better discipleship. And every church needs to prioritize that. But what I'm saying is to lean against the tendency to pit those concerns against mission. To think really that as we pursue Jesus' concern of taking the gospel to the nations, that we grow together in community as his disciples. more of an organic understanding embracing the whole not thinking of them as their separate silos of Christian existence thank you the thing you just said there that hit me most was that as important as the staff and the congregation are this meeting is perhaps the key it's the people in this room are the key to keeping a church missional okay so we go from the oldest to the youngest to the tallest of the lead pastors. The only lead pastor who's taller than me, and that's really emotionally complicated, you know? But we won't get into that. So, Scott, as we asked each of the guys to say something about one of the aspects, common grace, way more important than what I was able to give it credit for. Would you mind explaining the importance of common grace and giving everybody more ideas about the implications of the doctrine of common grace for our work?

Sure. First of all, just the notion of common grace, as you articulated in your talk just a few minutes ago, is that all goodness, all truth, all beauty, wherever it comes from, its primary source is God, which has vast implications for the way that we engage in our life and our work. the way that we engage with people who are not believers, who do not embrace the Christian gospel as we do. I guess you could start the discussion about common grace theologically and just acknowledge the fact that Jesus included the notion of common grace in virtually all of his teaching. teaching. He talks in the Sermon on the Mount about how God causes the rain to fall on those who believe and those who don't. You know, he spoke in many parables, teaching. It was very interesting, a lot of the discipling that Jesus did of believers, he would use the example of non-believing people who were doing things with truth and beauty and excellence in the world in order to instruct believers. His parables are full of examples of kings and managers of fields and courtroom activity and those sorts of things. You could look at the Good Samaritan parable where Jesus rebukes the clergy for their lovelessness by holding up possibly a non-believing Samaritan as an example of what real Christian service and non-profiteering might look like in the world. So Jesus is constantly teaching believers and discipling believers by the story and the impact of those who don't believe. So I think that's a very important place to start. The Apostle Paul and his evangelism, it's not just discipleship, but also the way that the Apostle Paul engaged the world around him. Acts 17 is a classic passage of Scripture where We see the Apostle Paul engaging with people of all different systems of belief. And what he does is he meets them on their intellectual and philosophical and artistic territory. He quotes, it's very interesting, he quotes, he doesn't just quote, he quotes from memory, words from Stoic and Epicurean poets and philosophers in order to teach the unbelieving world around him in Athens about the kingdom of God. And so both in discipleship and evangelism, common grace is a very important theme. I think some practical reasons why common grace is extremely important for us as believers who are seeking to make an impact in the city is really twofold. One is that the notion of common grace should have a very humbling effect on us as believers, because oftentimes it's the case in whatever your field, whatever your vocation, you can probably attest to this, that it's often the case that the best and most distinctive and standout work that's done in your field is done by people who are not Christians, which suggests that the most Christian and God-honoring work that is done in the world is oftentimes done by people who do not believe in Christ. And that should have a very, very humbling effect on us. And I think it should also have a very motivating impact on us as well that we, as those who believe in Christ, as those who follow and worship ourselves under the lordship of the one who, you know, says his healing hands are claiming ownership of all creation, and he's placing them on every part of creation, and he calls us to participate with him in that story. We have a reason that's the greatest reason to do what we do out in the world, to be Redeemer from Monday to Saturday, you know, with all of our hearts out in the world, in the workplace, with as much excellence and as much distinctiveness as we can, whether we eat or drink or whatever we do, as the Apostle Paul said, to do it all to the glory of God. You know, perhaps one litmus test of that would be the Acts 2 litmus test, where it says that the people of God, followers of Christ, were enjoying the favor of all the people. What does that mean in the workplace? Probably means, you know, a couple of things. What would the people that you work for say about you? Would they do anything that they could possibly do to keep you in the workplace, in their company? Because you add such value, not just by virtue of what you produce, but also just by virtue of the person that you are. You make the workplace a better place. And also those who work for you. This is a great question to ask as believers. Would those who work for us and under our leadership say that we, would they say that we are deeply committed to bringing the best out of them and to, you know, just as committed to them as human beings as we are to them as producers. And so I guess there's more to say, but I think we're running out of time here, so I'll stop there. Thanks, everybody. That was every one of you filled out in a great way. aspect of what it means to engage culture and integrate faith with work. I'm asking David Kim now to come and take this microphone out of my hands and lead us in prayer. He's put it up in the thing there, and he's going to... David, of course, you know, is on the staff of the Center of Faith at Work. Thank you, Tim. Join me as we pray.

Heavenly Father, we come to acknowledge you as the Lord over all. And Father, we extol you as the psalmist says, that the earth is the Lord's and everything in it. And Father, we do proclaim together as a church that all that we see belongs to you. But, Father, we also confess that in our hearts there's still such disbelief that creates these divisions Between what we think belongs to You and what we think really belongs to us or this world That we have created dichotomies in our hearts And dichotomies in the ways in which we view our Monday through Sundays But, Father, we pray that as a church that You would, through the work of Your Spirit, help us to see what the psalmist says, that the earth is the Lord and everything in it, that we would give to you all that is yours. And through the work of your Son, Lord, you have called us to be a royal priesthood, to go out into the world and every part of it, to reclaim these things as belonging to you. And so we pray that you would give us eyes to see how every field, every work, every sphere that we're all a part of. That these are all expressions of your character and of your glory and of your love. And as we faithfully pursue our work, that we would see this work that we do, that we spend countless hours doing as expressions of our love for you and your love for this world. And Father, we pray that you would awaken our hearts to see this great calling that we have received. That as pastors here, we have the same calling as all those that we preach to. For we are all given that same calling to be faithful followers of Christ in all that we do. And we pray that this church would be a church that proclaims you as the Lord over all. And that you would equip us through the work of your spirit, through the preaching of the word, and the giving of the sacraments, that you would equip all those who enter into this church with this larger calling. We give you our thanks and our praise and pray these things in your son's name. Amen. Thanks, David.

Okay, we're going to do something right now for about ten minutes, which is exciting and different. We, in the fall congregational meeting, the Congregation of Redeemer voted to call the four lead pastors who were serving as assistant pastors in Redeemer Presbyterian Church and called them to become associate pastors. pastors. In order to make them associate pastors, we have a commission of the presbytery that's present, that's been appointed. And actually, could all the ruling elders, everybody come on up here. And guys, I tell you what, why don't you stand up here and give the other elders a room. I'm going to ask them some questions. As you've seen us do this before, I'm going to ask you some questions. But first, as they're coming up, I'm going to explain what all this means and why we're doing it here just for a second. Look at that. Incredible. You may think of this as a technicality. When you say you're moving them from assistant to associate, about the only thing you probably know like that would be maybe professors go from assistant to associate. No room at the end. in. Scott. Yeah. Wow, look out. Okay. However, it's actually more significant than you might think. At Redeemer, pastors attend the session meeting, are involved in the work of the session, but they don't vote. The ruling elders vote on the session, and the pastors, assistant pastors, when the lead pastors were designated as such, we determined that they needed to be, yes, given a promotion. That is to say they should be called by the congregation to be associate pastors, which means they vote on the session. And that when we divide into our elder teams for each of the congregations, then they are able to lead those. And they need to do that. So in a sense, it's functional. It's also a vote of confidence. It's also a promotion. It's also an authorization and an affirmation. So it's no small thing. And the reason we're doing it here, partly pragmatic. You know, we've gotten to the place now where if we're having an installation service like this, where do you do it? Which service do you do it? And who do you leave out? Or do you do it at all five services, which is pretty exhausting and a little strange. And we decided not only pragmatically, but also principally, you are the leaders. leaders. The great changes that are coming to the church that are very, very exciting, but also very, very challenging are basically going to be led and carried out by the leaders, not just the average person in the pew, and not certainly just by the staff or the guys up here, by us here in this room. And therefore, we wanted to honor you, and we want, therefore, you're standing in for the congregation tonight, and I'm going to ask them the questions, congregation, ask you the questions. I'm going to give them a charge, then we're going to pray for them. I'll have you stand at that point, but not yet. So, where are you? Brothers? Brothers, are you now willing to take charge of this congregation as their pastors, agreeable to your declaration and accepting its call? If so, say, we are. Do you conscientiously believe and declare, as far as you know your own hearts, that in taking upon this charge, you are influenced by a sincere desire to promote the glory of God and the good of the church. If so, say we do.

Do you solemnly promise that by the assistance of the grace of God, you will endeavor faithfully to discharge all the duties of an associate pastor to this congregation, and you will be careful to maintain a deportment in all respects, becoming a minister of the gospel of Christ, agreeable to nation engagements? If so, say, we do. Okay, congregation. Do you, the people of this congregation, continue, because you have before, but continue to profess your readiness to receive these men whom you have called to be your associate pastors? If so, say, we do. Do you promise to receive the word of truth from their mouths with meekness and love and to submit to them in the due exercise of discipline? If so, say, we do.

Do you promise to encourage them in their labors and to assist their endeavors for your instruction and spiritual edification? If so, say, we do. And do you engage to continue to them while they are your pastors that competent worldly maintenance which you have promised and to furnish them with whatever you may see needful for the honor of religion among you? If so, say, we do. Here's a brief charge to these four brothers and friends.

Brothers, Luke 4, 18. The Spirit of the Lord is upon me because he has anointed me to preach the gospel. Acts 1, 8. But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes on you, and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria and to the ends of the earth. Acts 2, 4. And all of them were filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak. Acts 4, 8. They were all filled, pardon me, Acts 4, 31. They were all filled with the Holy Spirit and they began to speak the word of God boldly. 1 Corinthians 2, 3 to 5. I came to you in weakness and in fear and with much trembling. My message was not with wise and persuasive words, but with a demonstration of the Spirit's power, so that your faith might not rest on men's wisdom, but on God's power.

1 Thessalonians 1.5 Because our gospel came to you, not simply with words, but also with power, with the Holy Spirit, and with deep conviction. And Colossians 1.28.29 Him we proclaim, admonishing and teaching everyone with all wisdom. To this end I labor, struggling with all His energy, which He so powerfully works within me. I don't think I have much to add other than this. Whenever we talk about raising up a new generation of leaders, credibility is not something that can be passed along. long. Credibility comes when you sense by the Holy Spirit the power and presence of God with you as you speak, and they sense God's presence and power with you and with them as you speak to them. It's the unction, it's the anointing of the Holy Spirit that creates credibility, and that is something that you get from God and you must seek it and you must ask for it and you must not give up you have to be like Jacob and say I will not let you go until you bless me amen

Stephen and Carter are going to pray so everybody stand, we're going to pray for these brothers

Would you join us in prayer?

Gracious Father, we are thankful. We are so thankful for your goodness and graciousness to us, Lord. And Lord, we thank you for these four brothers, for these four men who are an example of your goodness and graciousness to us, Lord. That they have taken up your call to serve and lead this church as we seek to serve this city through the power of the gospel. Father, we pray that you would strengthen these brothers. Lord, we thank you for the call to lead us into this exciting and new chapter in the story of our church, Lord. But Lord, we know that it will be difficult. And Lord, in those times of weakness, in those times of trial, Lord, we pray these brothers would know that your grace is sufficient in their weakness. Lord, that they daily would be renewed by the power of your gospel, that they would daily be refreshed by the encountering and living with the transcendent and living God. So, Father, we do lift and commit these brothers to you. We ask that you would bless them and their families as they serve this church and serve this city. Lord, we pray as a congregation that you would teach us how to love and come alongside them and to serve them and to support them in the work that you've called them to do.

Father, it is indeed a privilege for us to install David, Scott, John, and Leo as assistant pastors. pastors, as you've shown yet again tonight, you have uniquely gifted each of these men. And though we're only now installing them tonight, they have been serving us and you for many years. We thank you for their service. We thank you for the commitment to you and to Redeemer. And we look forward with great anticipation to seeing how you're going to use them in the coming months and years ahead. Lord, we do pray tonight that you fill them with vision, with wisdom and love for this job. Cause them to wake up every morning eager to serve you, knowing that you are there right beside them. Give them the ability to handle the breadth of their role as prophet, priest, and king. Protect them from Satan, lighten their burden when it is heavy and grant them joy in all that they do. Father, we praise you and thank you for these four men, and we pray that you bless them richly. We pray all this in your son's name. Amen.
