We're continuing our series on stewardship, leaders are stewards, and we've been talking each week about the possibility of, each month, about being a steward of different things, and today, tonight, we're going to talk about stewardship of time.

You can't be a leader unless you are a good steward of time, and I go so far, listen, Listen, I need to say right off the bat, in the second half of my life, this has been the biggest area of my struggle. This has been my biggest area of struggle. And in fact, you know, you have to take it seriously when your wife says to you of 33 years, 32 years, has said to me, you are a man of integrity in every other area but this one. It's a pretty strong statement. it. So in this area, you have fooled yourself. You have not been honest with yourself. You very often haven't been honest with me. So I have, what I'm going to give you tonight, I guess, is hard one. This is what I do know about this subject. And in some ways, I've wrestled more with it than anything else. Certainly, I am, you know, as they, you know, the old, the image, image. I am not here as an expert. I'm just a fellow struggler. In many ways, I don't use that kind of AA terminology, but in this one, I do. And in New York City, I see lots of people who are going under in this area, and I'm kind of drowning in it myself. And therefore, I really am a fellow struggler. Nevertheless, we've got to keep struggling with it. So here's what I'd like you the Bible says about this area of time stewardship. First principle, you might say, is time stewardship is a command. Here's a verse or passage. Take a look at it. Ephesians 5, 15 and 16. Look carefully then how you walk, not as unwise but as wise, making the best use of the time because the days are evil. Therefore, do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord it is. Now, here's what it's saying. First of all, it's talking about wisdom. And if you remember, those of you who were around when we went through Proverbs, wisdom is knowing the right thing to do in the situations where the moral rules don't apply. There's lots and lots of options for how you're going to spend your time tomorrow. And guess what? They're all moral. They all fit inside side the rules. They're all allowable, but they're not all smart. They're not all wise. And a big part of what makes you a wise person or a foolish person is how you spend your time. The other thing to see here is this word redeem. It says, make the best use of the time. The old King James says, walk circumspectly then, redeeming the time. And by the way, literally, the Greek word there is, is we're called to redeem the time. The word redeem comes from the commercial world. It means to make a killing in the market. It means to spend your time so wisely and strategically that the returns are many times that of the investment. It's a commercial word. It means to use your time strategically, make a killing in the market. When it says we're supposed to do that because the days are evil, that's very easy to misunderstand. understand. When Paul says the days are evil, he doesn't mean, oh, we're just going through a bad patch. When Paul talks about the present evil age, he means the entire time between the first and second coming of Jesus. The overlap between the old evil age and the new time of the kingdom, the time between the first and second coming of Jesus is what he calls the evil age. And what Christians are solemnly obliged not to waste time. To be a Christian is not to waste time. That's what we're called. Now, this isn't simple at all. First of all, if you say, okay, I need to make sure that I spend my time on things that are spiritually, strategically redemptive, and that I will get more spiritually and strategically out of this hour if I spend it here rather than here. And I put down here, look, there's no doubt about it that watching, Watching a Cary Grant movie for two hours is not as spiritually strategic as praying for two hours. But if you never watch a Cary Grant movie, you are an impoverished person. The point is that recreation is something you've got to have, all right? You've got to have it. You can't pray all the time, and therefore, it's not that simple to simply say, okay, redeem the time. It's very, very difficult to understand. And in this city and at this time in history, there's never been a bigger problem with being a steward of time. Part of it's technology. Part of it's how connected we are. Part of it is that globalization has created such enormous economic pressures that everybody is pushed out to the margins. Everybody's trying to get blood out of a stone. Everybody's trying to get so much productivity out of its workers that we're all being asked to go way beyond what really is fair and right. And in spite of all that, in spite of the idols of our time, in spite of the technology, look at this underlined sentence. God could not give you more to do in a day than you can do. Right? God would never give you more in a day than you can do. If you have more than you can do then in a day, and you all do, some of it was not his will for you.

Walk circumspectly, redeeming the time, time, but discern the will of God for you. So if you have a day in which you have way more to do than you can get done, God couldn't have given that to you. There must be some stuff on your list that you gave to yourself or other people have given to you that shouldn't be on the list. You know, about 25 years ago, somebody told me that, and I've never forgotten it, and I still am wrestling with it, but it certainly leaves us without excuse. They were always, always feeling overwhelmed. There's way too much to do. God couldn't give you more to do in a day than you can do. And therefore, if you've got more to do in a day than you can do, which you pretty much always do, then somebody's giving you stuff that really isn't God's will for you. You or somebody else or your employer or your friends or your parents or whatever. But somebody besides God has given you some of those things. Having said that, now, how do we be good stewards? How can we be good stewards? And the answer is the key principle in the Bible to being a good steward of time is the Sabbath. If you observe Sabbath, though Sabbath is a minority of your time, you work a lot more than you rest. One day out of seven. Work six days, the Ten Commandments say, work six days and take one day off for rest. So obviously rest, Sabbath, is a smaller amount of time than work. However, the key to work is the Sabbath. You notice, interestingly enough, in that commandment, in the Ten Commandments, it says six days shalt thou labor, but on the seventh you must take a Sabbath. And the commandment stresses the Sabbath as the key to your work. If you want your work to be good, if you don't observe the Sabbath, your work isn't going to actually benefit you or the people around you very much. So Sabbath is the key. What's the Sabbath? All right, Sabbath is more than just taking time off. Let's take a look. Look under Principles. Number one, here's what I can tell you about what the Bible says about Sabbath. Number one, Jesus is Lord of the Sabbath. Jesus says in Matthew 11, 28, 30, Come unto me, all ye who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. So Jesus rather continually says one of the things he does is gives you rest. That's one of the great blessings of the gospel. That's one of the things he does. He gives you rest. What an amazing statement. Okay, number one. Number two, the Sabbath in the Bible means to regularly cease from and enjoy the results of your work. When we're told that God made the world, He made the sky and the sea, and He made the vegetation, and He made the animals, and He makes everything in six days. And then it says, what? He rests on the seventh day. But if you look carefully, on the seventh day, He's looking around and saying about everything, thing. It is good. Benediction. It is good. He's not just ceasing from labor. He's enjoying what he's made. That's the secret of the Sabbath. The whole point of Sabbath is joy. The purpose of the Sabbath is joy. To enjoy. To enjoy what? To enjoy God. To enjoy his creation. To enjoy the fruits of your labors, etc. But the purpose of the Sabbath is joy. joy, and freedom. Deuteronomy 5, 12 to 15, God ties the Sabbath to freedom from slavery. You go back to that passage and you'll see him say, the reason you are obeying the Sabbath forever is because I freed you from slavery. That's very interesting. Why does he do that? Answer is anyone who cannot rest from work is a slave. Anyone who can't put down your work, Anyone who can't get away from your work. Anyone who can't just set it down and leave it and get away. Anyone who overworks is a slave. You're a slave either to... Look at all these possibilities. You could be a slave to your own need for success. You could be a slave to your materialistic culture. You could be a slave to exploitative employers. You could be a slave to parental expectations. But you're a slave to something. If you're overworked and overtired, you're a slave. And therefore, the Sabbath is a declaration of freedom. It's a revolution. It's a liberation. The third thing we learn in the Bible about Sabbath is that external rest of the body, as important as it is, is not all there is to Sabbath. There's also a lot of work, a lot of talk in the Bible about the inner rest of the soul. It takes the deep rest in Christ's finished work for your salvation. If you go to Hebrews 4, it talks about Christ's rest. It's the rest from your work. What's your work? work. It's the work of self-justification. The only way you're going to be able to regularly walk away and rest from your physical work is if deep in your heart you're resting from the work of justifying yourself before others and before God. If you believe you're a sinner saved by grace, then you won't overwork. Why not? Because we overwork to justify ourselves, to get the money we think we have to have, or to get the status or the reputation or something. But only when self-justification is over, only when you get that deep rest in the heart of the grace of the gospel, will you actually be empowered, as it were, to really walk away from your work and take good Sabbaths. Now, having said that, turn over. Let's get practical for a couple of minutes. By the way, that quote there is from Judith Shulevitz. About a year and a half or two years ago, she wrote an article. She was a, I guess, a more secular Jew who wrote an article in the New York Times Magazine a couple years ago called Bring Back the Sabbath. It's all about how the fact that she walked away from her biblical faith, including the Sabbath, and she realized that she needed it. And she comes back to it. It's a very interesting article. But let's talk about practicals now.

Here's what I consider the basic principles. principles, I mean the basic practical portfolio Sabbath observance. Number one, first of all, yes, yes, you do have to make sure you have enough time away from work. How much time is that? Well, you know,

keep in mind that the Ten Commandments actually only require 24 hours off. You've got to remember that when the Ten Commandments were written to the Hebrews, they were working from sundown, sunup to sundown. They were working all day, basically, knocking off at 5 or 4 or 4.30 or anything like that. They worked from sunup to sundown, but they took exactly 24 hours off, you know, from Friday at sundown to Saturday at sundown. That was their Sabbath. And as a result, you look at your own work week and you say, well, how much time do I have to make sure I take off from work? Honestly, you don't have to confine yourself to a 40 or 50-hour work week. And a lot of you say that's good because probably get ahead in a career anymore on that kind of, you know, 40 hours or 45 hours. And actually, if you look at the Scripture, there's nothing that says you have to. But here's what I would consider. Now, let me just show you what I've thought about this. Over the years, there's people in the church who have incredible jobs, very, very hardworking. And there's people who work for the church, my own staff, my own ministers, my own pastors, me. me. And we also have very busy jobs. How much time is time off? Here's what I always suggest. You've got to have at least one full weekly day off in which no more than a half a day is given to ministry and church. That means if you have Sunday off and you're out all day doing ministry stuff, that doesn't count. If you're me, if you're Elaine, if you're somebody who works the church and on Sunday, you're just out at all the services. You've got to be at all the services. I'm sorry, all right, it doesn't count. If, on the other hand, you have a job and you are working hard during the week and on Sunday, that's supposedly your day off. If you come and spend half the day, maybe a third to a half the day, no more than a third of the half a day in ministry and worship and that sort of thing, and you have one other full day off, as far as I could see, you're inside the biblical boundaries. If you are like me or someone who works at the church and Sunday can't Then I say, you've got to make sure you have one full day off somewhere and three nights off. You can add that up. But the fact is, you can still get an awful lot of work in. What I try to do is I try to take Tuesdays off all day, and I try to take three evenings off. And my wife and I, and certainly Kathy has been after me for years, Kathy and I know that if I take all of Tuesday off and I take three nights off, not thinking. And if I inject Sabbath into the rest of my work, which I'll talk about in a second, we actually have a pretty good life, in spite of the fact that I'm getting quite a lot of work done during that week. But if I go beyond that, and there's a lot of people that would say, I need more time off than that. Fine. But that's the minimum, as far as I can see. So you need to have at least one full day and one half day, at least a day and a half off. And if you can't get one full day and one half day, then one full day and three evenings. There's an awful lot of people that have got jobs that can't get that in. If you're a resident, if you're a doctor studying to be a doctor and you're a resident, if you're an analyst on Wall Street, you're not doing that, are you? So let's keep going, number one. Okay, so first of all, you do have to make sure that long term is how much time you're taking off. Secondly, you've got to determine what to do with the time. And here's the portfolio. Be careful about this. Number one, you've got to have veg time. In the Bible, giving the land Sabbath one year out of seven was required. One year out of seven, you didn't plant anything in the land. You just let come up whatever would come up. It was crucial for making sure you didn't deplete the soil and destroy its ability to keep producing, just deplete its nutrients and all that. like that every week. It's not scheduled. You know, very often New Yorkers, we have time off, and immediately we've got all these things scheduled we're going to do. We've got errands to do, and we've got recreation. We've got this, and we've got that. You've got to have some veg time. You've got to have some time in which you just sort of don't have anything planned, and you let come up out of the heart and the mind what will. Secondly, you have to have avocational time. And an avocation is an activity that is pleasure to you, but it takes enough structure that it gives some structure to your Sabbath time. Usually it's an activity that other people do for a living in many cases.

This is analogous to occasionally planting a different crop in the field in order to replenish the nutrients and make sure the soil is more fertile for its normal crop. And, of course, there's a million examples of these, but here's the things that you've got to make sure you do structure into your Sabbath. There's got to be contemplative rest. There's got to be time for prayer, for devotion, for listening to God, for reading the scripture. It's got to be regular. Secondly, you need some recreational rest. The Puritans and others were rightly skeptical of recreations. They didn't like recreation on the Sabbath because they felt like a lot of people were getting very exhausted by the recreations. And they're right. You have to be careful about that. The recreation really has to refresh. Thirdly, you need aesthetic rest. That is, you need to expose yourself to God's works of creation. Part of what God did, you know, on his Sabbath in Genesis is he looked around at the world he'd made and he said, it is good. And if you never do that, I don't think you were actually participating in God's Sabbath. Look at these last two bullet points before continuing. continuing. You must make sure that you know whether you're an introvert or an extrovert. This is one of the problems, by the way, when you get married. Because if one of you is an introvert, one of you is an extrovert, you may want to do different things with your Sabbath time. You know, the Myers-Briggs definition of an introvert is not a shy person, but it's someone who gains energy by being alone and expends energy by being out with people. And an extrovert is a The person who gains energy by being out with people and kind of finds it draining to be alone. And if that's the case, then you've got to make sure that if you're an extrovert, you get out with people on your Sabbath. And if you're an introvert, you get alone on your Sabbath. So you're getting your batteries recharged. Now, if you're married to the person who's an extrovert and you're an introvert, it could be a problem. But you need to honor that. You need to honor that. The other thing is do a realistic self-assessment of family time. Here's the biggest problem. And if you are married and with little kids, I hope this will be an encouragement to you. Family time is not Sabbath time. Did you notice that? When the kids are older and they actually become friends, family time is a Sabbath time. But when they're little and they need a tremendous amount of looking after, family time doesn't count as Sabbath time. And yet you've got work and you've got Sabbath time and then your family is just always there. And for a season in which your kids are little, it's virtually impossible to keep those things in balance. But this too will pass. That's all I can say. But you have to be very, very careful because if you really have no Sabbath time that isn't family time, you're not getting any Sabbath time. And you've got to have some. Now, the most important thing to say, because I'm going to do Q&A in a second, here because I can't possibly hit everything that you might want to ask me. But look at the last bullet point on the last page. You can't... No, wait a minute. No, I'm sorry. Did I say the last page? On page two. Forgive me. Page two. You have to honor both macro and micro rhythms and seasons in your Sabbath. Israel's Sabbath cycles of rest did not work only once a week. but every seven years was a Sabbath year, and every 49 years, there was a jubilee, a Sabbath of Sabbaths. In other words, there were seasons in which there was more rest and seasons in which there was less rest. It's almost like there were seasons which you were working pretty hard, and you had a small amount of Sabbath, and you had to catch up with bigger amounts of Sabbath. Now, it's possible, therefore, to voluntarily take on a very high energy, long hours, is insufficient weekly Sabbath time season of work. For example, if you want to be a doctor or you want to work on Wall Street, there's going to be a period of time in which you can't possibly take enough time off to really honor everything that God says you should be doing with the Sabbath. It just isn't going to happen. You can't start a business usually that way. And when I came to New York to start Redeemer, I made a covenant, as it were, with my family to say, for three years, I'm not going to take enough Sabbath time. but it's the only way to get the thing started. There's a season as it were and so you have to be careful about this because you can justify too little Sabbath because you're going through a season and that season never ends. That's the reason why I go to the top of the next page. You have to make sure if you've just said that to yourself, oh, this is a busy time but I'll catch up later. Make sure it's not longer than two or three years and make sure that even during the under Sabbath seasons of your life, it doesn't squeeze out prayer, Bible study, and worship. You've got to have daily prayer, Bible study. You've got to. It's got to be somewhere. Now, one last thing, and then let's take questions. It is not enough simply to take time off and structure and, you know, your time off. You have to inject Sabbath into the rest of your work life. And this is the most important thing for me to say. And it's also the hardest thing to actually, you know,

concretely do. It's a heart matter. If you develop the foundation and the inner rest of Sabbath, it will not simply make you more disciplined about taking time off. It will also lead you to be less frantic and driven in the rest of your work. You've got to make sure that you so rest in what Jesus has done for you that you're willing to take some career hits. You're willing to maybe not look as good as the boss. You're willing. See, this is where bravery comes. This is where us being a counterculture in New York is important. Have you ever thought about the fact that, yeah, we should be different than the people around us. We shouldn't be sleeping around. We should be generous with our money. That's two ways we'd be totally different than everybody in Manhattan. Everybody in Manhattan is spending all their money on themselves and sleeping around. We are stingy with our bodies and generous with our money. Everybody else in Manhattan is stingy with their money and generous with their bodies. Right? here's one more area. Other people are willing to basically mortgage their souls to work. And at a certain point, Christians have got to say, I'm willing to set fewer goals. I'm willing to maybe not do as, go up the ladder as fast. I'm willing not, maybe even to risk not being seen as being the real go-to person in this department because I am going to, because I don't need ultimately to be so incredibly successful. I got to take time off because I've got the inner rest. of what Jesus Christ has done for me. So you've got to actually inject. You've got to inject it. However, keep this in mind. Very often I say to young people, and an awful lot of us are, aren't we, that in the early stages of your career, you just have to pay your dues. Very often you have to do stuff that isn't all that redemptive. Very often you have to do stuff that makes you work too hard. And later on, if you get to the place where you have gotten skilled and you've gotten some capital, as it were, some cred in your field, You very often can set out more on your own and create the workload that you really want because people know that you've got something of value and clients will come to you. You can't do that quickly. You can't work like crazy for three or four years, you know, in your mid-20s and expect somehow now you're going to have control of your destiny. No, it's more like ten years of really struggling with being under Sabbath. But at a certain point, you've got to say enough is enough. at a certain point, you just can't keep going. Or you're not really part of the counterculture. You're not really honoring Jesus who's Lord of the Sabbath. Okay, let's take some questions. And by the way, later, you'll have a time to talk more about it later on. But by the way, everybody, here's one last thing to say. Everybody's field is different. If you're an actor, if you're a Wall Street person, if you're a doctor, if you're a minister, Mr., the issues you've got with getting Sabbathed are so different than the issues in other fields that it's almost difficult to really give much advice across the vocational field barrier. You know, what helps an actor is not going to help a Wall Street person. Therefore, Christians inside fields, your vocational fields, have to get together and try to accumulate wisdom on how do you do it. the rhythms of rest and work. How do you keep a prayer life going? How do you do it? And very often wiser and somewhat more experienced Christians in your field can give you a lot of hints that I can't give and that other Christians around you can't either. Questions? Yes, question. There we go. When Jesus did the miracles on the Sabbath, he took offense or he The apparently the Pharisees weren't really in the spirit of the Sabbath. It was man being made for the Sabbath instead of the Sabbath being made for man. And he performed those miracles to show the Pharisees that really in the spirit of things, they were following the rules, but not the spirit. Knowing all this, I still think there are a few things when I take a Sabbath as perhaps not working or carrying bags or not working, not walking more than a mile and a half. Are there certain rules that we really should try to, because I'll go to the gym and work out for three hours, but then I won't go shopping and carry a bag. So I'm just wondering, generally, is there anything that we should follow in regard to what rest really is? Well, yeah. By the way, Judith Shulowitz, in her article, says,

Most people mistakenly believe that all you have to do to stop working is not work. The inventors of the Sabbath understood that it was much more complicated than that. You cannot downshift casually and easily. That is why the Puritans and the Jewish Sabbatarians were so exactingly intentional. The rules they set up did not exist to torture the faithful. Interrupting the ceaseless round of striving requires a surprisingly strenuous act of will, one that has to be bolstered by habit as well as by social sanctions. Christians. Now, the problem with that is as soon as you lay down a rule, because people are so different in their temperaments, some are introverts, some are extroverts, because people are so different in their vocational fields, you immediately get into legalism. As soon as a Christian community starts to say you can do this and that. For example, one of the rules that a lot of Christian communities do is you don't travel on the Sabbath. You just don't do it. You know, one of my co-professors at Westminster Seminary when I was there, Roger Greenway, wherever he was speaking, whatever he was doing, he never traveled on Sunday. It was just a discipline. He said, I don't get in an airplane. I don't get in a car. Wherever I start Sunday, I end Sunday. He would never though, inflict that on a community because he realizes that was his rule. So you better go find your rules, find them and stick with them most of the time. Don't beat yourself up if you ever break them because as you know, you impose them. It's not in the Bible. and you've got to be careful not to bind your conscience where Scripture has left it free. See, if the Scripture hasn't said you can't travel on Sunday, then you mustn't say to yourself or to anyone else you're sinning if you travel on Sunday. But it's a great idea. Roger wouldn't travel. And I remember thinking, I couldn't do that. But over the years I've looked at it and said, wouldn't it have been a bad idea? So come up with your own. If you're wondering about the fact that Redeemer doesn't press like some press, Presbyterian churches would say no recreation on Sunday. You can rest. You can go to church. You can't have a picnic. You shouldn't watch television. Presbyterians historically have said no recreation on the Sabbath. Redeemer doesn't practice that, though we honor people who do. And if you want more information about how that works, actually there's a longer handout on the Sabbath that I wrote three years ago that will be on your website that leaders can access.

we don't...I do not turn my nose up at people making rules like that and saying that's how we're going to do it. But because of the diversity of our lives now, I think those rules are obsolete. I think when everybody was a farmer, everybody was a factory person. I mean, in other words, when you had church communities in which...I mean, I had one like that, frankly. I had a church community in which everybody was a blue-collar worker and they all worked shift work. Everybody worked in one of the three plants in my church in Hopewell, every single one of them. There were two teachers and everybody else was a plant worker, men and women. And in some ways, we could have set up, but I didn't, we could have set up rules for the Sabbath that everybody would have said, great, we all agree that's a good discipline, that'll be hard, but we're going to do it. Because everybody was the same, but I don't know how we do that anymore. Okay? Other questions? I have a question. I find that maintaining relationships can take up a ton of time. And so, and for this, a lot of times, good purpose of building community or something else. So do you have practical advice on when enough is enough or how to prioritize relationships? Well, now, yes, keep this in mind. Are you an extrovert or an introvert? And honestly, if you are, in fact, you know, I keep taking those Meyer Briggs things all the time. Have you ever taken a Myers Briggs? You know, and it's one of the one of the scales they mark you on is extrovert to introvert that I just described a minute ago. And I'm always either just a little bit. I'm so balanced. I'm always, I'm either, depending on when I take it, I'm either just a little bit to the introvert side or just a little bit to the extrovert side, which means I'm a kind of in the middle person. But if you're strongly one way or another, that would help answer your question. If you are very introverted, then you really got to be careful about trying to maintain all those relationships on your Sabbath time. That would be too draining. If on the other hand, you're very extroverted, actually, it could be one of the greatest things you possibly do. If you're feeling a little bit like enough is enough, it probably means that your Sabbath is a little more relational than where you are on the Myers-Briggs scale. So where you are on the Myers-Briggs scale should probably indicate how relational that Sabbath time should be. And if you're feeling a little bit like that, then maybe you need to cut back. else is not feeling like that, then you don't have to. Somebody else? Hey, Tim. This is a clarification question. You said you take Tuesday off all day and then a couple of evenings off? Yes, Sunday is not my Sabbath. No, I know. But if you take all day Tuesday off, why do you need to take the evenings off? Not that you don't, but I'm just wondering why. It's not enough. I mean, well, because if I only take Tuesday off, if I would only take Tuesday off, I would actually be working six times 14? Class? It's 84 hours a week. I got to take more time than I shouldn't be working 84 hours a week. Yeah. Simple as that. See, I don't, if I, if I'm not, if yes, I'll be working. If I, if I don't say time off, if that's not time off, I'll be working. And I think in some places in the world, that's not true, but I think in New York, I'm not the only one like that. So I've I've just got to cut it down. Somebody else. Hi. I find that so many people overwork in New York. At what point do we have to think more about injecting Sabbath into our work and standing up to our bosses? And at what point do we actually have to think about changing jobs? Do you have any advice? Well, yeah, I do. Though it's always a tension. I spoke briefly about it. happens is, I think in the early days, well, this isn't just about Sabbath. A lot of people will say to me, okay, listen, a lot of people say, I'm an actor and I'm here in the city and an awful lot of the acting jobs I'm getting are not really being salt and light in the world. You know, they're either, they're not necessarily bad roles. I mean, the productions aren't bad, but they're not particularly helping people that much. The messages aren't all that redemptive. lot of this stuff I'm doing. It's just, you know, and what I always, and this is not just true of actors, it's true of an awful lot of Christians who say, I'm doing work that I'm not sure is all that conducive to shalom in the world. You know, it's sometimes, it's maybe not terribly negative, but it really seems to be in some ways just very useless. Now, I always say, when you're young, you've just got to earn your spurs. You've got to get to, you've got to get some experience under your belt, you've got to get skills under your belt. And so the younger you are, the more you probably ought to be saying, I'll do it, even though it's really not the best.

The same thing is true with the work. The younger you are, frankly, the easier it is to work long hours without it hurting you physically. You know, you're still strong like Boohoo. And somewhere, most of us who are my age, somewhere, where what happens is there's seasons. You don't actually get a little bit older every year. It doesn't work like that. It's like every so often, and who knows why, you suddenly get six or seven years older in about a three-month period.

So you older people, you're not laughing, are you? I don't know why that... Younger people don't know. That's exactly what happens. And when that happens, and you realize, whoops, I'm really... You don't get into your 50s till... Who knows? You know, you're not getting into your 50s when you're 50. four. It depends. It depends on you. When those things actually begin to happen, you really got to start to say, if I'm going to be a good steward of what I've got, I'm going to have to stand up. When you're younger, don't stand up as much. Be willing to earn your spurs, you know, pay your dues. And you actually don't have the value yet. You're not good enough at what you do to stand up to anybody. See, the better you are at what you do, the more you can You can actually, in a gentle and kind and winsome ways, not exploitative, not political ways, go to your superiors and say, I would really like to do this instead of this. And if you're good enough, they'll start to say, oh, well, all right. So it's a real balancing act. If you're willing to sacrifice somewhat, really go to the mat for a while, you can become valuable enough in some cases that you start to get more control over your life. Say, I don't want that project. I want that project. Because you don't say this necessarily to everybody. As a Christian, that's more redemptive, Now, in some cases, they just, listen, it's a broken world. In some cases, they're just going to exploit you no matter what. And you say, when do you actually quit and go somewhere else? And the answer is, we've talked about this before. That's why community is so important. You've got to have some friends that you trust, that are wise, some people in your field, so you are sure that if you think, I've got this horrible job, and it's impossible, You've got to have somebody in your field who knows to tell you whether you're right or not, whether your assessment is right or not. You need wise Christians. You need wise Christians in your field. You need some people around you to help you decide when to do that. But at some point, just simply for the gospel's sake, you may have to say, I'm walking.

Where that's going to happen is going to depend on what your community says with you and your own heart. Okay, another one. one of the reasons that I think my Jewish friends are so good at observing the Sabbath because they do it together and so I was wondering if you would speak about the communal Christian Sabbath practice okay now listen that's a great Heather you're right

you know what New Yorkers are entrepreneurial enough to do this I don't think most churches I would say this they'd say huh you have to do it for me pastor but remember how I said a minute ago, I think their first question was, is your rules. We cannot, because of the diversity of people and situations here, lay those rules out, like saying no picnics, no travel, that sort of thing. But I don't know why some of you couldn't. I don't know why some of you couldn't band together and say, this is going to be the discipline and let's hold each other accountable to it. You know, Judith Shulowitz, go find that article. It'll be very easy to find online. It

Yeah, easy to find online. And she just realized, she says, see, both Orthodox Jews and Presbyterian Puritans were the two groups of people in history who made the biggest deal about the Sabbath. And when you actually hear about the rules that developed in those traditions, it is over the top. There's just no doubt about it. And legalistic and stupid. And yet she says, yeah, okay, sure, look at the excesses, all right. But the point was they knew that unless they had real rules, they couldn't downshift. So I don't know why, entrepreneurial enough New Yorkers, some of you couldn't say, I was thinking about making a rule that I'm not going to travel on Sunday or something like that and stay put and do something like that. The other thing, by the way, some people have done. One of the best ways to develop unity amongst friends is you choose one of the daily offices. You choose either the Book of Common Prayer that has certain prayers and readings that happen in the morning and the evening. Or go get one of the millions of various Catholic versions, okay? And covenant to, on the Sabbath, read the same passages at the very same hours on Sunday. for example, or, you know, whatever. So I don't know why you couldn't do something like that. It'd be interesting. Give it a shot. One more, I think. That's it. Hello. Hi. Before starting to come to Redeemer, I spent like about 17 years in the seven-day Adventist church. Oh, wow. And so 17 years, mind you. And so when somebody, the only reason why I thought to speak up was as someone who mentioned the whole communal idea of Sabbath. Yeah. And legalism involved but I noticed that I work on Wall Street too and there are times of the year when I have so much work to do that I'm just simply overwhelmed but I will tell you this Friday night it was over till Saturday night and I always got my work done so you know it was like it's nice to have a communal experience with other people who you all because what you're you're saying about downshifting is really true. You can't downshift casually. Somewhere in your mind, you have to know at a certain time frame, this is going to end. I don't care what happened at work during the week. It's over, you know, for 24 hours. And it has really helped me because if I didn't have that, I would have come home some Fridays carrying that whole weight of the week on my shoulders and just kept working. You know what I'm saying? On Friday night, I could have Saturday morning, you know, but it taught me not to do that. So, yeah, I am here after going to Redeemer for a while, still trying to understand what God wants of me from that because to this day, Friday night, everything stops, you know. And I rest, you know. And we used to make great use of Central Park because you can go out and enjoy nature. And everybody relaxes together. That's the one aspect that I do miss of that, was that, you know, everybody would relax together. And so you just give yourself that time. Listen, I'm really glad that everybody just heard that testimony. First of all, how about some other people getting around her and doing it with her? Secondly, there's plenty of Orthodox Jews, as you know, on Wall Street that they just do it. And they have careers. Now, by the way, did the people where you work know you were Seventh-day Adventist? Did you have that advantage? Yeah, they were aware of it. You know, just like where I am now, they're aware that I'm a Christian as well. Well, I was going to say, I remember my son, when he worked at Bear Stearns, there was a guy who was an Orthodox Jew in his department. And because he was an Orthodox Jew, in some ways his supervisors knew that. And it did make a difference to them. And occasionally I said to him, you're Presbyterian. Take him to Westminster Confession of Faith. Have him read the part on the Sabbath and say, oh, we can't give you anything to do Saturday night either. and he didn't want to do it. I'm wondering whether or not it wouldn't be a... You know, in other words, it's possible for people to do what I just suggested, and that is to say, we say, that is a rule of life for me. That's a rule of discipline for me. And if some of you do that, you may find that you can do it even without the help of your supervisors. But in some cases, you can say, this is a religious issue for me. Well, don't say it will never work with my supervisor. Don't say that. But thank you for that testimony. money. We've got to wrap this up and I'm going to ask, Bruce and I want to talk to you a little about the fifth service before we move on to the huddle time. And Bruce is going to start.
