We're going through the book of James in the New Testament, part by part. Let me read you James chapter 3, verses 9 to 18.

With the tongue we praise our Lord and Father, and with it we curse men who have been made in God's likeness. Out of the same mouth come praise and cursing. Can both fresh water and salt water flow from the same spring? My brothers, can a fig tree bear olives or a grapevine bear figs? Neither can a salt spring produce fresh water. Who is wise and understanding among you? Let him show it by his good life, by deeds done in the humility that comes from wisdom. But if you harbor bitter envy and selfish ambition in your heart, do not boast about it or deny the truth.

This is God's Word.

now we uh we're looking at the book of James and James is seeking to show us the difference between mere profession of faith and real possession of faith that's why I'm starting the sermons uh each week just to get that in there he's trying to show us the difference between just professing faith just uh subscribing to the Christian faith mere profession of faith and real possession of faith, to really have a faith, to really have a living faith, to really have a working faith. Now, last week, last two weeks, we took a look at the first part of Chapter 3, which had to do with words and the power of words. And it moves us right into the next subject, which has to do with wisdom. And here's why. James has been talking about the power of words. And if you've been listening, if you've read it and if you've heard the impact, it should scare us. It really should. The power of words. He talks about how the tongue, like a little spark, can burn up an ocean of forest. So words have incredible power. They can sink into us. They can really hurt us. We said last week and the week before that, that the reason words are so important is we're in the image of God, verse 9, It says we're made in God's likeness. As a result, we need words just like we need food and water. Because you need food and water, that makes you vulnerable. You have to eat. And you might eat something that actually hurts your digestion. You might eat poison. You need food, so you're vulnerable to poison. Well, we need words. And because we need words, we need words that nourish us. We're vulnerable to words that don't. And words that go down, there's certain kinds of words he's saying are poison, and they can destroy us. So actually there was an illustration that is just perfect for this in the book that the staff has been reading recently. It tells about a true story in the 13th century, Frederick, who's the Holy Roman Emperor. Now, you know, the Holy Roman Emperor, it's funny, there's a lot of stories, true stories about these guys because these guys were over people that spoke Italian and German and French and Spanish and so forth. You know, they were big shots. And Charles V, you know, somebody asked Charles V at one point, Say, King, you know, you're over the Spanish and the Italian and the Germans and the French and all that. I mean, what language do you actually, what is your language? And he says, ah, yes. He says, well, I speak French to my mistress and Spanish to my God and German to my horse. course. And since I know German, I thought, well, I understand. Well, Frederick, who lived in the 13th century, he had the same kind of issue. And he had this very strange experiment up his sleeve. He said, I'd like to know what primordial human speech really is. If you don't teach a little baby a particular language, what kind of language would the child grow up speaking? What's the primordial? What's the basic? What's the language of the Garden of Eden? He had a bunch of infants brought immediately after birth, and they were to be cared for, and they had wet nurses, and they were going to be loved and cherished and cared for and given all the basic necessities, but no one could speak to them. It had to be done in total silence. No one could say a thing. And the experiment went according to plan. Everything worked. They got love. They got affection. They got fed. They were slept. They had no speech, and every baby died.

You need words, the power of words. We've got to have them. And because we're vulnerable, if they come in and they're poison, they destroy us. Now, suddenly we get to the place where we start to realize this, and he says the problem with our words is the heart. He says in verse 10 and 11, he says, out of the mouth comes praising and cursing because our hearts are mixed. is both fresh water and salt water. In the word salt water, there's bitter water. There's both sweet water and bitter water. The human heart has got the capability of sweetness and bitterness in it. And he says, you see, the problem is if we don't do something about our hearts, we're going to be misusing the power of words and we're going to kill others and we're going to kill ourselves because we talked about that last week. So we have this enormous power. How in the world are we going to get the wisdom to deploy it properly? How are we going to get the wisdom. And that's where he turns. Now he moves away from talking about words and he gets into the whole subject of wisdom. And wisdom means right living. Wisdom means the ability to live in such a way that we don't kill ourselves and we don't kill other people. And he talks about how we really can develop a heart for wisdom and a life of wisdom. It says, who is wise in understanding among you? Let him show it by his good life, by deeds done in humility that come from wisdom, wisdom, and so on. Now, let's just ask the text two questions. What is wisdom? And then secondly, how do you get it? Because I think that's what he's after. And actually, he tells you a lot more about it than you think at first. What is wisdom and how do you get it? Now, what is wisdom? Let me show you a number of things that he says that don't, they seem a little disparate, but they really all, there's a thread, there's a common definition. For example, we're told that, First of all, it says, who is wise understanding? Let him show it by his life. You don't show your wisdom by what I'm doing, which is your talk. You show wisdom by life. If I sound wise at certain times, you say, he must be wise. You don't know that unless you look at my life. And don't all of you look at my life. But some of you have to look at my life. Some of you live with me. Some of you work with me. And the way you'll know whether someone is wise is not by what he or she knows, but by how he or she lives. It's not by what he or she knows, but how that knowledge is applied. Look down here. It says peacemakers. Wisdom is peace-loving. Wisdom are peacemakers who sow in peace and raise a harvest of righteousness. And here's another little idea is where it says, who is wise in understanding? The word wisdom is the classic Greek word, Sophia, from which we get our word sophisticated and other words. But the other word is the word understanding, which means expertise or know-how. Now, what do all these things have in common? Let me give you a definition, then let me draw it out. The definition is, wisdom is the ability to see and build relationships of all sorts. Wisdom is the ability to see and build relationships. Wisdom is the ability to take things that are unrelated, see, and fit them into a relationship. Wisdom is the ability to take disparate things and put them into a whole. Wisdom is the ability to see and discern and to build relationships. Well, for example, right away, I already showed you, it says that understanding is know-how, leading a life. It's one thing to know something. It's another thing to know how it relates to life, how it relates to everything. Wisdom is knowledge related, worked out, lived out, related. For example, there was a great interesting article today in the New York Times sports section about the difference between the old NBA, you know, basketball stars, and the new stars. The old stars are kind of getting into their mid-30s, which as you know for athletes, they're all slower. They gotta be slower. So you have Michael Jordan and you have Barkley and Patrick Ewing and people like that. And then you have all these young Turks that are coming up and they are incredibly gifted. And you have Shaquille O'Neal and you have Hardaway and you've got Grant Hill and people like that. And they said, and it was really interesting. The sports writer was saying this. The fact is that the young guys are really a step or two faster now than the older guys. The young guys are just a little bit more talented. They really got a little bit more stamina old stars and put them up against five of the new stars, the old stars would win all the time. And everybody admits it. Why? Well, they have a lot of ways of putting it. You know, they say, well, you know, these older guys, they know how to win. What does that mean? They know how to win. What does that mean? They know how to win. I thought it was very interesting for Shaquille O'Neal to say this. He says, you know, there's no way to hurry that kind of up, that kind of knowledge of the game up. What do you mean knowledge? They know all the same rules. You know, there's a limited number of rules. there's a limited number of things you can do in basketball. They all know the same facts. They all know the same rules. They've all heard the same instructions. The difference is the experienced people, the word never came out, they're wiser. And what does it mean to be wiser in a basketball game? They look out and they see relationships when they get to the court that the young guys don't see. I mean, probably the least athletically talented person who will ever be in the basketball hall of fame will be Larry Bird. He's the guy, he could jump three inches. And, you know, he was a lot slower than a speeding bullet. But he was probably the wisest basketball player I've ever seen because he could look out at the court and he saw relationships that nobody else saw. He saw convergences. He knew about, he saw relationships between strengths and weaknesses on his team and strengths and weaknesses on their team. He saw things. He saw facts. All the same facts. He knew all the same things everybody else knew, but he saw how they related. He saw how they applied. He saw openings. He saw opportunities, which is just a way of saying he saw relationships. He saw how things fit together that other people couldn't see. Wisdom. That's what O'Neill means when he says they know how to win. They're wiser. And he's right. There's no way you can get to that very fast. Well, let me go, So what makes a great musician? Well, what makes a great musical composer? Kathy and I have just, we were listening to the Grand March from Aida by Verdi, and Verdi has this one spot, it's very, very simple, where, if I played it, you all know it, and a lot of you know it just as I talk about it, where there are two trumpet parts, and the one trumpet part is, you know, pretty classic.

But they have another part at the top, a simple thing, in which one other trumpet part is just repeating the same high note over top of the melody line. It's memorable. It's famous. It's world famous. It's majestic. Why? Because he saw relationship. Because he had the wisdom to see relationship. He took two notes. Every other composer, every other musician knows all the notes. There's only so many notes. Everybody's got the same notes. Everybody's got the same sounds. Everybody knows what an oboe sounds like. Everybody knows what a trumpet sounds like. Everybody knows what strings sound like. great music is somebody sees a relationship. They say, these things would fit together. These things come together and they bring them together and it's incredible. You say, why can't I do that? Why can't I do that? Because you're not as wise. Because you don't have wisdom there. Now, you know actually, what's going on? They're taking facts and they're relating them to each other. Things that other people don't see relationships do, they see relationships. They can bring things together. Let's go to human beings. Why is it that over and over again we see here and all the way through the Bible, wise people are peacemakers. Wise people are able to develop relationships and reconcile people and bring peace. They're able to bring things together. They're able to relate people and relate things and relate groups of people together that nobody else can. A wise person knows how to reconcile two people. A wise person knows how to, you know, smooth over ruffled feathers. A wise person knows to confront but not too far, to compliment but not butter up. All the right moves, all the right things, and here's a person, a wise person, who can hold a group together or can turn people into friends together. If that person leaves, very often the friendships just fall apart. Happens a lot. Why? Because the person's wise. Wisdom is the ability to bring things together, to see relationships and build relationships. Another way to put it is wisdom is the ability to take a fact, take a concept, take a word and make it concrete. In other words, relate it to reality. So, for example, all art is like that. Bezalel, who was the artisan, he was the craftsman who was the leader of all the artists that built the tabernacle. And they were doing crafts work and metallurgy, and they were doing weaving and so on. It says the reason that he was able to do it, the reason he was able to do art was God gave him a gift of wisdom. Art is wisdom. Why? Art is taking something that's kind of a concept and relating it to reality. For example, what would we say? He dramatized it. What does that mean? He took something that was kind of abstract, and he showed how it works out. He shows how it related. And you say, oh, I never saw that. that. Well, what's going on? When you say, I never saw that, what you mean is, I knew that. I didn't see that. What are you talking about? I see how it relates. And that brings us to the ultimate. The ultimate wisdom, the Bible says, what does it say? It says, the beginning of wisdom is the fear of the Lord. Now, fear of the Lord, let me remind you, does not mean you're scared of the Lord. But in the old, I mean, you know, it says in Psalm 130, I'll say this over and over again. Psalm 130, it says, there is forgiveness of sins from you, therefore I fear you. And when people see that, they right away realize that their understanding of the word fear is obviously not fitting with what the Bible is meaning when it uses the word fear. Why would you be full of fear at the knowledge that God loves you? Because the word fear means to tremble with awe, to be amazed. But here's what it's saying. You have not begun to be wise. The beginning of wisdom is when your knowledge of God becomes something that you're relating to, is when you're relating the knowledge of God to you, to your life. Sometimes, in fact, just very recently, somebody came up to me, and it was a great compliment. They said, they were talking about a kind of spiritual awakening. And since they said, a lot of things I hear at Redeemer, I've I've heard in churches all my life, but here they've become 3D. What does that mean? Or when somebody says, you know, I've known that all the time, but it hit me. What does that mean? It hit me. I realized God was this or God was that. Spiritual wisdom comes whooshing through your life using a very, very important little tool, if-then. If-then. You know what if-then means? When I hear somebody say, wait a minute. I always knew God was holy. But if he's holy, I always knew God was loving. But if he's loving, I always knew Jesus died for me. But if he really did that, then, see, well, why am I mad? Why am I sad? Why am I living like that? Why do I feel superior? Why do I feel inferior? If this, then what's going on? Your knowledge is being churned into wisdom. all of us. That's really what it means to try to grow as a Christian. All of us as Christians have far more knowledge than we've got wisdom. We don't know how it relates. You see, the only reason that we're worried, the only reason that we sin, the only reason that we're upset, the only reason that we don't do everything that we're supposed to do is because our knowledge hasn't been churned into wisdom. And it happens when you say, oh my gosh, if, then. And at that moment, the way Edwards puts it is. The difference between notional knowledge and spiritual wisdom is the difference between knowing that honey is sweet and experiencing the sweetness of honey on the tongue.

You've moved from knowledge to wisdom. The same thing happens with God. What makes you a Christian and not just a religious person is that you've moved from knowledge to wisdom. You've seen how it relates. You've said, well, I always knew that I was a sinner, but now I feel it. I sense it. I realize it. I've always known that God loves me, but now I see it. I sense it. I realize it. What's going on? Wisdom. And therefore, finally, what does it mean to be wise? It says, who is wise understanding among you? Let him show it by his good life. Now, this is very important to see. There's two Greek words, very common, both of them, and they're both translated good in English. And this is one of those places, just like the word of other words where there's more Greek words than we've got English words. And you see, one of the very common Greek words that's used in the New Testament is the word agathos, which means good in the sense of morally correct, proper, you know, that sort of thing. Good as opposed to evil. But that's agathos. But then there's another Greek word, kelos, which means beautiful and lovely as opposed to ugly. And do you know which word is being used here? It's not saying, wise. If you're wise, the wisdom will express itself by your good life. The fact is you could actually be very moral without wisdom. But real wisdom makes your life beautiful. What makes something beautiful?

What makes beautiful music is you take sounds that have no relationship to each other and you relate them to each other. Through rhythm, through harmony, through proportionality, you relate them. That's what moves it. that's what makes it beautiful. And what makes your life beautiful, if you notice, it says the opposite of wisdom is disorder. See that? In verse 16. Rather, here's what goes on. A beautiful life, a wise life is first of all a life in which you relate things in your life. For example, your care of your body and your care of your soul. For example, care of relationships, cultivating relationships, and at the same time using your gifts in work. You know, You have to have work. You have to have inside. You have to have outside. You have to have your spiritual side. You have to have your relational side. A wise person has got them all in balance. They're related to each other and perfect. They're not eating each other up. They're related to each other. They're not against each other. They're not in conflict. Nor are they disengaged from each other. But they're in perfect balance. A wise life is beautiful because all the parts of it are related to each other. And secondly, a wise life is beautiful because all the parts of it are related to reality. The Word becomes flesh. That means you take a concept and you relate it to reality. People who've got ridiculous goals, unrealistic goals. People who think that they're good people when they're actually sinful people. People who are out of touch with what the Bible says the nature of reality is and the nature of the human universe of relationships is and the nature of the human heart and so forth. Well, there's going to be ugliness and brokenness. a wise person is someone who takes the truth and makes it flesh. The word becomes flesh. You work it out. It becomes beautiful. That's wisdom. Seeing relationships, building relationships, relating things that had no relationship before. Now, how do you get this? You know, somebody says, wow, that's interesting. How do you get this? Now, we're not talking so much just about, you know, some of these things are gifts. Let's face it. Obviously, basketball wisdom is a gift, though. There's a lot of work involved, they'll tell you. Artistic wisdom, musical wisdom, those sort of things are gifts. Even, I guess, we could say in some ways relational wisdom is gift. But let's go to the ultimate. The beginning of wisdom is the fear of the Lord. The beginning of wisdom is a spiritual wisdom. That spiritual wisdom flows out into the rest of your life. Now, Now, how do you get it? And I would say that the text tells us here really two things. If you first look at it, it looks like he's saying you just work hard. See, it seems to be nothing but exhorting. Who is wise understanding? And if you read it superficially, you'll think he's saying, be good, you know, be good, forgive, don't be selfish, you know, keep on going down here, here. Watch out for being earthly and unspiritual. Don't be proud. Be peace-loving. Work on relationships. And in a way, he is saying all that. But that gives you the impression, and a lot of people get that impression, that he's saying wisdom really comes from just your hard work, period. And in the old days, in the ancient times, almost all cultures, in a way that they don't Now, you know, one of the reasons why modern culture despises age is because they have lost the whole concept of wisdom. All the ancient cultures, all the traditional cultures tremendously, you know, respected their elders. Why? Because, just like Shaquille O'Neal said, you can't hurry up wisdom. There's just no way to get a Vulcan mind melt, you know, and the wisdom comes on in. It just doesn't happen that way. Modern culture has pretty much lost the concept. preachers, all of them, they saw the Greeks loved wisdom. You know, Paul says that the Greeks loved wisdom. The Chinese loved wisdom. Everybody was after wisdom. What is wisdom? Ah, the ability to have an orderly life. The ability to relate your life to reality. The ability to relate all the parts of your life to one another. The ability to make peace. The ability to relate notes to each other so it's beautiful music. The ability to relate substance to each other so you have art. I mean, they understood that. They understood that was wisdom. The ability to relate things. The ability to see it. The ability to make mobiles. you know, balancing everything off of. But they all thought it was just something that you had to do, really work hard. The Bible tells us, no, it's a gift. You have to seek it and you have to work it out, but it's a gift. And there's two ways you see that in this text. The one is, it says, it says, let him show up by his good life, by deeds done in the humility that comes from wisdom. Now, this is a reference back to chapter 1, verse 6, the other place where James talks about wisdom. And this is, I'm going to call this the penultimate way you find wisdom, and then I'll give you the ultimate way. The penultimate way is you got to suffer. Back in chapter one, this is what we read. Consider pure joy, my brothers, whenever you have faced trials of many kinds, because you know that the testing of your faith develops perseverance. Perseverance finishes its work and makes you mature, not lacking in anything. So if any of you lack wisdom, you should ask God who gives about this at length back then, but let me just remind you again, because it's been a while, a long time. You see what he's saying? He says, count it joy when you have all kinds of trouble. Why? He says, trouble strengthens your faith, creates endurance, matures your character, and brings you to wisdom. You don't get wisdom unless you get into situations where you're in trouble, where you're out of control. You don't get wisdom until you're humbled. humbled. There's a number of reasons why. Wisdom means being in touch with reality. Do you see that one of the main themes of this paragraph is, the prouder you are, the more insane you are. The prouder you are, the stupider you are. The prouder you are, the less wise you are. The prouder you are, the more out of touch with reality you are. In two ways, and I don't have time to elaborate, but here are the two ways. The first way is, one of the great pillars of reality is whatever you are, whatever you have that's good, whatever you are, anything about you that's good and admirable and better than anyone else is a gift. 1 Corinthians chapter 4. Anything that makes you different than anybody else is a gift. In 1 Corinthians chapter 4, it says, Why do you act as if anything better than you is a gift? Do you realize? Now, think about this. If you look, what is the basis for racism? What is the basis for classism? What is the basis for sexism? Yes, basis for hatred of gay people. If there's anything in you that makes you think you're different and better than anyone else, even if that's the case, it's a gift. And for you to be, where does all racism and sexism and all this stuff come from? You're out of touch with reality. If you are what you are by the grace of God, no matter who you are, no matter whether you're a Christian or not, you say, I've made myself what I am. Yeah, what the Bible says is, sure, choose your family, you didn't choose the century in which you were born, you didn't choose your race, you didn't choose your family, you didn't choose any... I mean, suppose you were born

on a mountaintop in Tibet in the 12th century. You wouldn't have an MBA then, would you? You'd say, well, I've worked hard for my MBA with what you got. got. You didn't work hard for what you got. You worked hard with what you got. But you got it. And so the first thing, you know, one of the best ways to say humility is wise and pride is always stupid means it's out of touch with reality. And so many of our problems, the racism, all that, just that alone, the brokenness of the world is coming from that, being out of touch with that, God. Not being humble. Wise people are humble. Wise people make sense. To be humble about who you are is being in touch with reality, and life will go better, and there'll be a balance. And to be proud is brokenness everywhere. Pride is stupid, but not only that, of course, besides the fact that everybody is what they are by the grace of God, you also have to remember that you're a sinner. In addition to that, you're a sinner. And if you don't know you're a sinner, you're totally out of touch with reality. Now, you don't find that out unless something goes wrong, almost always. As John Newton once said years ago, no one ever learned they were a sinner by being told. You have to be shown. It has to happen. You have to see your limits. You have to see your weaknesses. And you will never be weak unless you go through troubles, and you will never really therefore be wise. You'll never have the meekness of humility.

That's, I call that the penultimate way you develop wisdom. The one way you develop wisdom is things come into your life that humble you and you start to get to know who you are. And pride destroys relationships. Pride makes it impossible for you to see relationships. There is no, you know, there's a million examples, but let me just say, sometimes on the basketball court, as anybody who knows basketball at all, the most talented guy who is a ball hog, the most talented guy who is proud, the most talented guy who is self-centered is stupid. Team will never win. Absolutely not. The more humble, see that? The more wise. The more you see relationships. That's what an assist is. The more assists, the more wise you are. Anyway, okay. But here's the ultimate. The ultimate way is it's up there. Wisdom has to come down from You see that? It's very, very clear. It's not here. It resides up there. Well, what does that mean to say it resides up there? Well, in Proverbs chapter 3, 19, we're told, by wisdom, the Lord laid the foundations of the world. By understanding, he set the heavens in their place. So God's got wisdom. God, and in the ultimate act of wisdom, he brought order out of chaos. He created us.

God is the source of all beauty, of all narrative pattern, of all stories, of everything. God created the ultimate wisdom. The fulfilled wisdom.

reside in heaven. This spiritual wisdom. Obviously, if we could just get up there and get God's wisdom, there's a wisdom behind the universe. There's a word behind the universe. There's a wisdom and an order behind the universe. Boy, this... Think of all the ramifications we can go into which we cannot. This is the reason why there's a design behind the universe. This is the reason why you know that if today something weighs 200 pounds, tomorrow it'll weigh 200 pounds and everything else being equal because of the uniformity of nature because there's wisdom There's a word behind it. But how are we going to get up there? Well, James is wise enough to say, you can get this wisdom because even though it resides, it has come down. See? The wisdom that comes down. Well, how did it come down? Here's all we can say. The Greeks knew that there must be a wisdom behind the universe. They saw nature. You know, there's people who are always going to say, you know, the universe is an accident. There's no wisdom behind nature. And yet they can't, yet every day they assume that nature is uniform, that there's a rationality to nature. They assume mathematics work. They assume there's a moral order. They assume all these things. You live as if there's a wisdom behind nature because there is. The Greeks weren't so stupid. They knew there was. And they thought, well, they believed it was a realm of abstract ideas that you could know through contemplation. But John says the Word, the wisdom, the logos through which God created the universe, the Word became flesh and dwelt among us and we beheld His glory. Glory is of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. And you know what that means? The Greeks should have known. If whenever you see wisdom in anybody's life, it's always a relationship, it's always relational. Surely if there was a wisdom behind the universe, it wouldn't be something you could know in the abstract. You'd have to relate to it.

The wisdom behind the universe is a person you have to know personally. A person you have to love. A person you have to commit yourself to. Not a person that you arrive at through contemplation. The Greeks should have known it. We should all know it. If the essence of a wise heart is relationship, then wisdom itself behind the universe would be a relationship. And, you know, Christians believe that God is triune. There's always been a Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit. And for all the problems that creates, you know, rationally and logically, what it means is relationship is the key to nature and grace. Relationship is intrinsic to the universe because God is a relationship. Because God is filled with relationship from all eternity. That's the reason why wisdom is what it is. But the ultimate wisdom was not even Jesus creating. It was on the cross. You know why? There he related the two things that could not be related any other way. God's love and his law, his truth and his love. Those things were unreconcilable. But in the most ultimate act of wisdom, he brought them together. And as a result, he brought God and us together. That's wisdom. them. And when that gets into your heart, when you taste that, not just know about it, when you get your nose spiritually in the honey jar, you Christian whinnies the poos. When it catches fire in your heart, you become wise. You know why? You finally see that truth and love should not be pitted against each other. And one thing we talk about at Redeemer all the time, unless you see the cross, you're going to have a religion of truth, you know, do it all right, or religion of love, just find myself. You won't know how to deal with suffering. You'll just deal with truth. No, listen. If you have a religion of truth and you suffer, you get mad at yourself. I must have done something wrong. And if you have a religion of love, you get mad at God. God, why would you let anybody suffer? But if you've seen the cross, the wisdom of God is, I'm a sinner. But God loves me so much, He's entered into my suffering so that He died, not that I might not suffer, but that in my suffering I might become like him. The wisdom of the cross, the wisdom who we can know, who brought the ultimate irreconcilable things together. Take that into your heart. You will become wise. It's the wisdom that has come down. Let's pray. Father, there's so much more we can explore, but we cannot. Would you show us more and more what it means to be wise. Oh, Lord, make us wise people. Let this become a church of wisdom. Teach us how to be wise and bring the Word and make it flesh in our lives. Let our relationships, let our vocations, let our use of our gifts in our jobs, let the balance of our lives, let all these things be characterized by your wisdom, the wisdom that flows not just in some a world of ideas, a wisdom that we can know personally in Jesus Christ who died on the cross. He has been made unto us wisdom and righteousness and sanctification and redemption. In him all the treasures of knowledge and wisdom are hid. Let us know that. Let us experience that. Make us wise. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.
