Now, it's perfectly appropriate with all these baptisms to look at a man, Paul, and how he came to the place where he could be baptized and be a Christian, and we've been reading

1 Corinthians 15, and I'm just going to read to you the section of the chapter, we've been moving through the chapter, that describes his conversion. It's chapter 15 of 1 Corinthians, verse 9, 10, and 11. That's all I'll read. And here it is.

This is God's Word.

Paul tells us the story of his conversion here. Outside of the crucifixion, we have more information in the New Testament about Paul's conversion than about any other historical event. Outside of the crucifixion, we have more material. Why? Because there's a sense in which, in one respect, Christ is not a good example for us. You see, Christ... Never had to become a Christian. Jesus was always the Son of God. And that's not true of any of us. All of us have to become Christians. And therefore, we need another model when it comes to that. And the Bible basically puts Paul in front of us. In fact, Paul even realized that. In 1 Timothy 1, he says, This is why I obtained mercy, so that in me the worst of sinners, Jesus could display his boundless and bottomless patience in me and display it for all who come after me as a pattern. See, Paul realized that he was a pattern. Now, what's important in understanding Paul as a pattern for us is there's a timelessness about Christianity. St. Paul was a man. He was originally named Saul, and he became Paul after he became a Christian. He was a man who lived thousands of years ago now. And in a radically different culture and milieu than we. And yet, Paul knows, and the Scripture knows, because it keeps putting him in front of us, that in spite of all of the uniquenesses of every Christian conversion, there are some essential features that we all share. All of us. There's a timelessness about Christianity. So that in spite of all the differences, there is a sameness. There are certain features in every conversion. Every human being who is... Who is a Christian today became a Christian. Some conversions are dramatic. Some conversions are very slow. Some conversions are late in life. Some are very early in life. But they all have got to eventually have the same features as the ones that we see here. What is a Christian? How do you become a Christian? The answer is in Paul. Now, if you want to see the basic features of Paul's conversion, he has them here. You look at the verbs. He says, I was a persecutor of the church. But by the grace of God, I am what I am. There it is. That's the testimony. I was. I am. See, I was that. But now I am this. And what's between the was and the is? Here's what I was and here's what I am. The word grace. I was, but by the grace of God, I am something else. That's it. When it comes to details, he didn't give us many. And yet, all the features are there. The details are in the book of Acts in chapter 8 and 9, chapter 22 and 26. And there we hear what actually happened to Paul. He was Saul at the time. Saul was originally a brilliant rabbinical scholar. Brilliant. Many people say that if Saul had never been converted, he probably would have become one of the greatest scholars. Jewish scholars in history. Taking his place with Moses and with, in the Old Testament, in Maimonides, in the Middle Ages. Paul, however, Saul did not turn out to be that. But he was a brilliant scholar and he hated Christianity. He thought of it as blasphemy. He thought of it as a terrible thing. And what he was doing, we're told in the book of Acts, was he was literally hunting Christians down. And we were told by Luke, the author of Acts, he was dragging them out of their homes. Dragging them. Throwing them into prison and, in many cases, executing them. We're told that as he saw Stephen, the first Christian martyr, stoned to death, executed, he stood there nodding his approval, smiling at it. And then we're told in chapter 9 of the book of Acts that Paul, still Saul at the time, had gotten the right to go to Damascus and to re-enter the city of Damascus. He had to root through that city looking for Christians. And we're told in chapter 9, verse 1, he went to Damascus breathing out threats of slaughter. He was intent on murdering some Christians. But on the road to Damascus, on his way to Damascus, a bright light flashed around him out of heaven. He pitches to the ground and this loud voice comes out, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? And Saul says, who are you? And the voice says, I'm Jesus now. Go into the city and wait until I tell you what to do. And when the light passed, Saul found himself blind. And now helpless, blind, and shattered, he's led into the city of Damascus and we're told he spent three days and nights there in blindness, in complete darkness, not eating or drinking anything. And while he was in there, he tells us in Romans 7, which we're going to see in just a second, what went on in his mind. He struggled, he wrestled. He began to look his life over and said, where could I have gone wrong about this? And he says in Romans 7, I was alive apart from the law, but then the commandment thou shalt not covet came to me and the commandment slew me and I died. And he went through all this, we'll explain that in a minute. He went through all this, he was wrestling. And finally, after three days he was ready and God sent a Christian to him, a man named Ananias, who laid his hands on him and said, Brother Saul, God wants you to receive the Holy Spirit. And he laid his hands on him and suddenly he got his sight back and he believed and he received Christ and he got up and he was baptized that day. What do we learn for us from that experience? If he's a pattern, what do we learn? We learn everything we need to know. It tells us what it means to be a Christian. It tells us how to become a Christian. Three things I'll just mention. First of all, we see in the conversion of Saul into Paul that becoming a Christian is a deeply personal experience. Deeply personal. Why? Well, look at I am what I am. What Christianity does is it changes your very being. There's many people who are very personal. People who very much object to this personal note of Christianity. People would like to think of Christianity as a big change, but sort of like changing your career. Sort of like changing your political views and joining a new political party. But it's much more radical than that. In fact, some people would even like to think of it as kind of getting married. It's even more radical than that. I remember talking to a man a year or so ago who had come to Redeemer to visit and to check it out. And I talked to him. I talked to him afterwards and he told me he'd been a little bit freaked by the worship service. And I said, what do you mean? Well, he said, I was sitting alongside of somebody who was sort of closing her eyes when she was singing and weeping during the sermon. And he says, you know, that freaked me out. And I said, why? He says, well, I don't want to get that into Christianity.

He says, I don't want to lose perspective.

And I, you know, the problem with that is that everything's a perspective. But what I said to him was, look, on the one hand, I said, of course, it's a possibility that you can turn Christianity into emotional catharsis of sorts. And there is such a thing as using Christianity like that. And that's not genuine Christianity. But I realized what he really had a problem with was he was upset with how radically personal the Christian message is. He really wanted to sort of take it up the way he takes up a new way of thinking about life or a new diet. Or like I said, even a new career. But no, Paul does not say, by the grace of God, I think what I think.

He doesn't say, by the grace of God, I do what I do, even. He says, by the grace of God, I am what I am. Which means my very being has been changed. I have been changed volitionally and socially and emotionally and cognitively. Every way. That's what the man was objecting to. And there's nothing to do about that. Christianity, becoming a Christian, is a profoundly personal experience. Christianity doesn't really want to say, what are your opinions? Even, what are your ethics? Christianity says, what are you?

What is the bottom line of your life? What are you really after? When all is said and done, what are your commitments? How are you going to assess your life at the end? What are you really about? How are you going to face death? What are you really? It's terribly personal. It's awfully. It's terribly personal. I'm sorry. That's the way it is, really. It's a personal experience. And secondly, it's a tremendously powerful experience.

Paul was a very powerful man. First of all, as we saw, he was an activist. He didn't just believe that Christianity was blasphemous. He was out to exterminate it. I mean, this is a man who's an activist type. You know the personality. He's not passive. If he thinks something has to be done, he goes out and he does it. Not only was he an activist, but he was a brilliant intellect. When he was defending the gospel before Festus, we looked at this last week, if you were here, before the king Festus, the nobleman, Festus looked at him and says, I can't believe what you're saying about Christianity. Paul, he says, your great learning has made you mad. I mean, everybody who heard Paul realized that here was a brilliant erudite scholar. But not only was he brilliant, not only was he an activist, but he was also extremely religious, tremendously self-confident, tremendously hard and proud. This man is a tornado. And yet, the gospel knocked him flat.

That's the reason why Paul says in Romans 1, verse 17, I am not ashamed of the gospel. It is the power of God unto salvation. Did you hear that? He doesn't say the gospel, the Christian message, is about power of God. He says the Christian message is the power of God. It has body. It has substance. It's not a concept. It's not an argument, though it has an argument. It's not an appeal, though it has an appeal. It's a power. That's what it says. And if you really are a Christian, or if you have become a Christian, or if you're becoming a Christian, just as I said, you realize how personal Christianity is. Nobody can become a Christian unless you understand that. But secondly, anyone who's becoming a Christian or has become a Christian realizes when it comes to the gospel, when it comes to the Christian message, when it comes to the Christian truth, you're not really dealing with a body of information, but with a nexus of power. You sense there's something coming from the outside in to disturb you, to do something to you, to do something with you.

The Christian message is, it looks on the outside like a body of information, but it's not. It's not a philosophy. It's not a psychology. It's not a sociology. It has philosophy. It has sociology. It has psychology, but that's not what it is in its essence. Go to a tribe. Go to a tribe in a backward and poor area of the world where they still eat their enemies. Go to a family in a city where there's violence inside the family. Go to the old Roman world where they used to throw baby girls out when they were born because they're not going to help us economically. Go to those places and take them philosophy. Take them sociology. What's the sociology say? What's the philosophy say? Well, you know,

violence hurts society. We can't have a civilization with violence. So go ahead. Just try to take that philosophy and change that family. Go ahead. Go in there and say, in the name of the social fabric, stop beating your wife. See if it'll work. In the name of the social fabric, stop beating your enemies.

Philosophy can't do it. Psychology can't do it. And yet routinely for 2,000 years, the gospel has gone into families, has gone into villages where people still ate their children, went into the old Roman world and changed it. Utterly changed it.

The gospel is a power. And if you are a Christian or you've become a Christian, you know what we mean. It's not a body of information. It's a nexus of power. You actually, in many cases, I've seen people who as they're becoming Christians, they're not a body of information. They're just people who wish they'd never heard of the gospel. They wish they could get away from it. They didn't realize. They thought it was a book. They thought it was a body of information. It was in print. It looked harmless. It looked like something you could put away, but you can't. It looks like a typical piece of printed material, which means you have to breathe life into it in order to make it live. Oh no, it breathes life into you. It gets a hold of you. Some of you have wished that I could get away. I wish I could go back to when I didn't have to think about the meaning of life. I didn't have to think about sin. I didn't have to think about grace. I didn't have to think about whether Jesus was God, but now I can't help it. It got me. It's got its claws into me. Anyone who's a Christian or is becoming a Christian senses a power from the outside coming in and dealing with you.

It's your creator. It's your maker making you again. Okay, now lastly, we said becoming a Christian is a personal experience. And then secondly, becoming a Christian is a powerful experience. But lastly, and most importantly, becoming a Christian is a grace experience.

See, what is it that actually brought Paul from I was to I am? By the grace. What's the grace? How could that do it? What does it mean that this tremendous, tremendous change happens by grace? What does it mean when we say that this incredible alteration happens by God's grace? Well, it means this. First of all, it's by grace because you don't really seek it. Before you become a Christian and even while you're becoming a Christian, you think you're a sincere seeker after the truth.

Everybody who hasn't become a Christian thinks he or she is a fairly sincere seeker after truth. You feel like if there was a God or if I saw a way to God, I would want to know him. You feel like you're basically pretty moral, you're pretty decent, you're better than most people, that you're a fairly sincere seeker after truth. Everybody feels like that until you become a Christian and you know you weren't. You never were. You never wanted God. You were trying to avoid him all under the guise of having been a sincere seeker after truth. The only people who know they're not sincere are Christians. The only people who know they didn't ever want God and they did everything they could to stay away from God were Christians because they knew the only reason they're Christians is because God came and showed them where he was and who he was. Paul says in this amazing explanation in Romans chapter 7 what happened in those three days of blindness, those three days of darkness. He says in Romans 7, I was alive apart from the law, but the Lord said, but the commandment thou shalt not covet came home to me and slew me. What does that mean? Here's what it means. It's a shocking thing. First of all, he says, I was alive apart from the law. Now how in the world could a rabbinical scholar say he was apart from the law? Here's a man who poured over the law. Here's a man who ate and drank the law. Have you ever seen the kind of books that the rabbi scholar types had to study? Huge books, tiny print, thousands of pages because in the center, is maybe two or three verses and all around the margins in tiny print are all the rabbis and all the views of what every verse meant. And a good scholar not only knew the law but what everybody thought about every verse of the law. He ate it. He drank it. He poured over it. He knew it backwards and forwards. He preached on it. He lectured on it. He was a world-renowned scholar on it. And yet, he says, I was apart from it. What does he mean? He means, in spite of it all, I realized in the darkness, though I thought I was a good guy, though I thought I was a moral person, though I thought I was decent seeker after truth, I had completely missed the point of the law. I was apart from the law. That movie recently called Hero with Dustin Hoffman in it, the plot is basically that Dustin Hoffman plays a character who is a lowlife, a liar, a thief, a scum, and he is. But then he rescues 50,000 people in the city. He rescues 55 persons out of a burning airplane at the risk of his life, and the whole plot revolves around the fact that nobody believes that he did it. Why? Because the people who think they knew him best, his wife, his son, his friends, and all that, say there's no way he could be capable of that. In other words, though they thought they knew him, they didn't know him. Though they thought they were close to him, they were apart from him. Though they thought they understood him, they had totally missed what he really was. And Paul, in the same way, says, I thought I knew the law inside out. And I thought I obeyed it totally. The young rabbi said, I had never taken, the name of God blasphemously on my lips, I had never taken a woman to bed. I had never, he had never been married, I had never taken a woman to bed, because you cannot take a woman to bed if it's not your wife, that's the law. I had never physically harmed anybody. I had never even tried to physically harm anybody. I had never cheated anybody. I had never been dishonest.

I had never stolen an ounce, a penny, or an inch. As far as I knew, I had obeyed not just one law, not just two, but all the Ten Commandments, all of them. I thought I was immersed in the law. I thought I understood the law. I thought I was in the center of the law. But suddenly in the darkness, he realized he was apart from the law. That he had totally missed the point of it. He said, I was alive apart from the law. He thought he was alive before God. He thought that if I were to die today and stand before God, I'd be alive before him. Because he says, do the law and thou shalt live. I thought if God was fair, he would see that because I was a decent moral person, that I deserved his favor, his blessing, and his honor.

And, therefore, I was alive. I thought God loved me. I thought God accepted me. But I had done it by mistake. Missing the whole point of the law. He says, for the commandment came and slew me.

Which commandment? Thou shalt not covet. How did that happen? Here's what happened. Here's what happened. Paul began to realize, you see, the first nine commandments could be read in an external behavioral way. Thou shalt not kill means don't knife somebody. Thou shalt not steal is a physical behavior. Adultery is a physical behavior. Even the first one, have no other gods before me, could be read to mean don't worship statues and go to the proper worship services. But the last one, thou shalt not covet, was all about inward motivations. And Paul suddenly began to realize, in the darkness, maybe where he'd gone wrong was he had missed what the commandments were really after. When he began to think about the heart, the law came to him. And this happens to anyone who is a real Christian. The law comes to him. It comes to you and shows you were not such a great guy. You were not such a great gal. You were not a good seeker after truth. The law came to Paul like this. Now imagine, here's how it goes. Paul says, well, I've never killed anybody. Thou shalt not kill. And the law says, ah, but Paul, what is murder? Murder is setting yourself up as the judge and the jury and the executioner. What is a grudge? Same thing. An unforgiving spirit, same thing. Look, Paul, just as a forest comes out of a little acorn's cup, so murder comes out of an unforgiving spirit. Paul, is there anybody you'd really despise? Is there anybody you really loathe? Is there anybody that you really would like to see fall down? Is there anybody you have a grudge against? Don't you see? The only difference between an acorn and a forest of oak trees is the conditions. Give it the right rain, give it the right soil, and that acorn is a forest of oak trees. The only difference between an unforgiving spirit and murder is the conditions. Look, Paul, says the law, you know why kings and dictators seem to kill more people than average middle-class citizens like you? The only difference is conditions.

You're a murderer, Paul. Murder comes out of unforgiveness. And Paul began to look. If that's what murder is, what's stealing? Oh my gosh, if that's what murder is, what's adultery? And he was knocked flat. He was as flat on his back spiritually as he had been on the road physically when the light hit him. That happens to everybody who becomes a Christian at some point. Don't miss the point just because you're not a rabbinical scholar. Everybody's like this. Everybody. I read about a minister who, as he got older, was so upset with being in the church where everybody was so self-righteous all the time. He says, I'm going to go places. I hate being around people who think they're better, think they're good, think they're better than other people, think they're better than other people. So he spent time in the prisons and the homeless shelters in ministry. And guess what he found out? He wrote an article about it. He says, to my amazement, the people in the prisons and the homeless shelters were just as smug and self-righteous as the people in the churches. It was never their fault. They were better than most people. Nobody understood. I'm really a good guy. I'm not a sinner. And then the minister began to counsel people with bad self-images. Codependent people. He says, at least these people hate themselves.

They won't be self-righteous. They won't look down their nose at other people. They hate themselves. They tell everybody about it. They tell themselves that. They have low self-images. And he began to find they were just as self-righteous in their unworthiness because they gossiped and they were bitter and they felt morally superior to the people who weren't as messed up and complicated as they were. Who weren't as sensitive as they were. Who had mistreated them, though of course they had gone out of their way to be mistreatable. And he began to realize we're all the same. Everybody thinks we're good people. Everybody thinks, whether you have a good or bad self-image, whether you're very religious or extremely irreligious, whether you're Paul the Apostle, you know, Saul the Rabbinical Scholar, or Al Capone, I'm really a good guy. Look at all the people that I help on the south side of Chicago with my feeding programs. Everybody says, I'm alive. Everybody says, God should give me these things because I'm better than most people. And he said, and we all miss the point of the Bible. The point of the Bible is, no one is righteous, no not one. He was slain. He was knocked on his back. And everybody who becomes a Christian realizes, I can't be saved. I can't be acceptable through my performance or through my merits. Through any of my efforts. People with good self-images and bad self-images are all proud.

Now the last, the final thing is, Paul finally became baptized. Why? Because God never leaves you in despair. Don't you see, here's the good news. Until you see that you're dead, there's no sign of life. But as soon as you see that you're dead, it's proof that you're actually coming alive. See, this is the way Christian, the scheme of Christianity works. You don't have any spiritual life until you see that you're spiritually dead. As soon as you start to say, hey, I thought I was a pretty good person. I thought I was better than most. But as I've come to read the Word of God, and as I've come to see what the Bible says, I realize I'm dead in the water. I'm dead meat. I don't deserve anything from God. I can't give Him what I owe. I can't pay what I owe. See, as soon as you say, I thought I was a pretty good person, but now I'm dead, that's the first sign that you're coming alive. First one. Is there anybody who thinks what I've just said is extreme?

You heard what I just said. I said that there's no real difference between you and the serial killer on death row. That's what the Bible says. That's what the Gospel says. The differences are just minor. You're both proud. You both think you're okay. You're both justifying yourselves. You do not see that you really need a Savior. Let me put it to you this way. Do you see that today, the only way you can possibly be accepted by God, the only way, the only way, is because the Savior, the Son of God, you're so wicked that only the Son of God's death could save you. Only a measure as desperate as that could save you. Do you understand that? Do you believe that? If you think what I just said is extreme, you're alive apart from the law.

But the good news is this. Until you're dead, you can't be resurrected. Until you see that you're dead, the message of grace cannot transform you. And this is what the message of grace is. Jesus Christ, because he died, because he died for you, because he's lived for you, if you rest in him instead of what you think was pretty good about yourself, if you transfer your trust from yourself to him, well, what happens is, God accepts you then. Put it this way. All the self-help books will tell you this. Don't let what other people say be of importance to you. All that should matter to you is what you think of yourself. Don't let what other people think, don't let other people validate you. Validate yourself. Decide what your standards are and live up to them. You alone can validate yourself. That's silly. Just try this experiment. Go to a mirror and say 100 times into it, you're great. You're the best person I've ever seen in my life. And then, watch what happens when one other person comes up to you, somebody from work and says, you know, you're great. Of all the people I've ever met, I think you're about the greatest person I've ever met in my life. Let me ask you something. Will 100 times those words have the same impact out of your mouth as just one time

out of somebody else's mouth? You can't validate yourself. You can look in the mirror and say, I'm great, I'm great, I'm great. 100 times when somebody else comes up and says you're great, finally you begin to believe it.

The message of the gospel is you can never validate yourself. You can never justify yourself. You can only be justified by another, Jesus Christ, the righteous one. He lived for you. He died for you. And that's the reason when Paul realized that, he was able to say, I am the least of the apostles and I'm also laboring better than them all. What a unique self-image the Christian has. He's willing to admit I'm the least of the apostles. I was the biggest hypocrite. I have the greatest problems with my past. I was the worst of all. But actually, I'm now the most successful. How can Paul do that? How can Paul say in one place I'm the worst of sinners and yet he's laughing in the face of death and he's challenging kings and lions and he's leading this incredible movement. Many people think, well, if I thought I was the worst of all sinners, I would be on the verge of suicide. That's because you don't understand the gospel yet. As soon as you realize the verdict is in, as soon as you realize that through Jesus Christ the Father loves and accepts you, you can admit your sin and at the same time know that he's going to use you. That's the reason why Paul has this incredible self-image. That's the reason why. It's astonishing. It's great. And let me, just to conclude, let me ask you, here's your final test. Paul is able to be used and to preach the gospel and to have all this confidence in spite of what he knew happened in his past. How about you? Many people say, well, I think I'm a Christian and yet you are galled by and haunted by your past. This and that you did with your parents. This and that happened in your marriage. The divorce, you're not sure how much it was your fault. You're haunted by the past. You can't forget the past. It's constantly haunting you. Well, do you have in your past what was in Paul's past? What did Paul have in his past? The screams of people as he killed them. The looks in the eyes of people as they were dragged from their homes and put into prison. Did you have anything like that in your past? Even if you did, this is the grace of God. It can clean it. It can pay for it. It can blow it away. It blew it away for Paul. And if it hasn't blown it away for you, you might not be a Christian. Or if you are a Christian, it's because you're not bringing yourself back to this gospel. By the grace of God, I am what I am. It's a personal experience. It's a power experience. It's a grace experience. Have you had it?

Are you strengthening it? Are you strengthening the grace in your life if you're a Christian? Have you got the confidence and the humility of Paul at the same time? If not, you're not using the gospel in your life, Christian friends, like you could. If somebody as moral as he needed a Savior, so do you. And if somebody as murderous and as wicked as he got a Savior, so will you. Let's pray. Our Father, as we close, we simply ask that you would help us to see what your grace is.

Your grace means that we're not as good as we thought, and your grace means that we are far more loved than we ever dared believe we could be. That's all that happened to Paul, and look what it did. Look what it did. If someone as hard as Paul could be softened, so can we. If someone as moral as Paul needed your mercy, so do we. If someone as murderous and wicked as Paul got mercy, so can we. We pray then, therefore, that you would help everybody in this room to get hope. There's people here who are skeptical and hard. Show them that they can receive you. There's people here who really think they're so unworthy that you would never receive them. Well, they can receive you. It doesn't matter who we are. Whether we think we're good or we think we're too good or too bad for you. Whether we think we're too hard or too soft for you. Whether we think we're too religious or too irreligious for you. Show us in Paul the pattern what it means to say, by the grace of God, I am what I am. It's in Christ's name that we pray. Amen.