. in which we receive folks and have baptism, to be looking at the work of the Spirit in John chapter 16. And we're going to look at verses 5 to 11. Almost always when the Bible talks about the work of the Holy Spirit, it talks about the work of the Spirit inside the Church. This is one of the few places, maybe the only place, where Jesus tells us about the work of the Spirit outside the Church. Look, verse 5, chapter 16, 5 to 11.

He will convict the world of guilt in regard to sin and righteousness and judgment. In regard to sin, because men do not believe in me. In regard to righteousness, because I am going to the Father. In regard to judgment, because the prince of this world now stands condemned. This is God's word.

When I was a youth, I used to watch Mission Impossible all the time. and I just liked it so much because every week the little tape would say, your mission, should you decide to accept it, is to save the entire world even though the chances are just three trillion to one that you will even survive.

And every year the leader of the Mission Impossible team would always accept the job with a confident smirk, knowing that they'd be there next week to take another one. and they dropped the little tape recorder into the wherever and watched it dissolve. One of the first examples of government waste. Every year, every week, another tape recorder. And it was fun, and it was very fanciful. But we actually have here, in chapter 15 and 16, a real mission impossible. In fact, a mission impossible that historians still really aren't sure they can figure out. You see, at the end of chapter 15, Jesus says,

about me. And in the beginning of chapter 16, we didn't read that today, but we read it in previous weeks, Jesus says, you are going to have such opposition that there will be people who will think it was a service to God to kill you, and most of you will be killed. Now this is a real mission impossible that really is a historical issue. Jesus sends out a bunch of illiterate fishermen and the like, who have no rank in their country, and they are in a country that at that time in the world had virtually no political clout. And he says, go out there and turn the world upside down. Now, you have to realize what the message is. The Christian message is one of the most untenable messages possible. I mean, there's a certain plausibility about the thing now because we've been around so long and there's all these big cathedrals around, but would you be, for a minute, be What the job was, the mission was, that Jesus had given these people. They're supposed to go out, for example, these Jewish fishermen had to go out to their fellow citizens and say, guess what, Yahweh, the uncreated creator, the transcendent king of the universe, the great God, has become a penniless preacher who was crucified, the deliverer of the nation. And even the best of you are unclean unless you believe in him. how well is that going to go over? Or imagine this, they're going to go to the Jews, not to the Jews, but to the Greeks and the Romans too. These folks have to go to the Greeks and the Romans. Now the Greeks and the Romans believed, like Aristotle and Plato taught, the truth and beauty and justice were ideals, cosmic ideals that dwelt, if you could say they dwelt, in an immaterial realm above history.

And these Christian missionaries Greeks and go to the Romans and say, guess what? Truth has become a historical particular. Not only that, but it's become a person, an executed criminal in a little backwater Roman colony. And by the way, philosophers, unless you believe in him, you're lost. How's that going to go over? You see, the question historians have got to ask is, why in the world did anybody listen to these people? Why? Of all the religions vying for ascendancy at that time, certainly Christianity had the one message that was almost designed to go right against the cultural and religious sensibilities of the day. Right in the teeth. And the real question is, why did anybody listen? Why does anyone in this room, why have we ever heard of them? Why did it ever get off the ground?

It's a real question. Oh, you say, well, they had dedicated followers. Listen, every little religion had a bunch of sincere, good-hearted fanatics who were willing to die for the faith. That doesn't explain it. Not only that, Jesus says, oh, by the way, one more little thing before your mission. I'm about to die. In other words, on the night of the great battle, the captain is going to be killed. So ready? Get out there and change the world. Your mission, should you decide to accept it, what's my choice, they said. Now, Jesus gives the most plausible answer that I know of for why this religion, this untenable religion, this crazy mission was accomplished. And the answer is that he didn't just send out his disciples, he sent out the Spirit on the mission too. He says, I will send this missionary, I will send the Spirit into the world of sin, of righteousness, and judgment. And the reason we've got to look at this is because we all need to know this. Here's why. Some of you, some of you are people who've been coming to Redeemer for a while, and you are surprised, though not convinced, of the coherence of the message. That means that Christianity, for the first time, actually seems plausible. You're wrestling with it. You're struggling with it. The odd thing is, on the one hand, Christianity makes and there's more questions than you've ever had before. And there's a wrestling and a struggling going on inside. Don't you want to know what's going on? Don't you want to know what's happening to you? This is not an intellectual exercise. This passage tells you that you are involved in the mission of the Spirit. And you need to understand what's going on. Some of you are Christians who are on the mission. That means you look around and you have friends and you have relatives and you have neighbors and you have people who are sinking. and you weep over them, and you say, what can I do to help them? How can I, in a sense, show them what I know? And you're going to get mighty frustrated unless you realize who else is on the mission with you, and what his job is. And then I'm hoping, and I expect that there's some people in the room right now that think the whole idea of an inward supernatural religion is silly. See, most people today believe that religion is a matter, it's a cultural form, or it's a matter of philosophy or it's a lifestyle or even a blueprint for society. But the Bible says here that real religion, Christianity, is first of all an inward transforming supernatural reality. Something that the Spirit of God Himself does on the inside before it ever becomes a lifestyle or a belief or certainly a blueprint for society. And if you say, I don't believe in the born-again stuff, well, here's something. You want to see a miracle? just maybe, as we explain this text, the text itself might actually be fulfilled in your hearts by the very spirit that the text describes? Maybe. Let's look. Come on. First of all, we're told here about the mission of the spirit that there's a general work he does and a particular work. The first is a general kind of conviction, and then that general kind of conviction becomes something more particular, more detailed. it says here, he will convict the world. Now that word elenco is an extremely interesting word. It means to cross-examine someone, to show them their error. It's the work of a prosecutor. See, to elenco, to convict somebody, means to get them on the witness stand and cross-examine them, asking them a lot of hard questions to show the holes in their story. to actually undo the fabric of the person's view of things. Now, the reason this is a very odd statement to make about the Spirit is in verse 7, Jesus again uses the word about the Spirit. He calls him the paraclete. Now, we said a couple of weeks ago, the word paraclete means to stand by somebody. And so people have translated it many ways. Some people call the Spirit the encourager or the comforter or the counselor. And we said you could also translate it the advocate, the defense attorney.

Don't you see Jesus is being on purpose, well not paradoxical by saying the advocate will come to prosecute. See in verse 7 he says this is your advocate, he's your defense attorney. But up in verse 6 he says, and verse 8 he says, He says, he has come to cross-examine you, to prosecute you, to show you your error. You say, how could that be? How can a defense attorney act as a prosecutor? And the answer is, it's not that hard. You see it all the time, don't you?

If you love somebody, and they are engaged in deluded or self-destructive behavior, you get rough on them. That's just the way it goes. Haven't you ever seen the movies in which you have two friends or maybe two lovers and they're running from some danger and running from some peril and one of the people falls to the ground and says, I give up, I'm too weak, we can never get out of here, it's over. Now if you love that person, what do you do? That's not the time to be gentle, is it? You grab them, you say, on your feet, we're going to get out of here. Why do you rough them up like that? Why do you grab them by the collar and pull them onto their feet?

why do you prosecute? Why do you argue with them? Why do you tell them they're all crazy and wrong? Because you love them. That's the way it goes. And the Bible tells us that the only way for the Spirit to get us acquitted from the guilt and power of evil in our life is to convince us of the guilt and power of evil in our life. So, here's just two quick examples. Do you remember, back in the Christmas season, we looked at Mary. We said that Mary was the first Christian, in a sense, because Gabriel comes to Mary and says,

Mary, the Messiah is going to be born. He's not going to be a mere human being. He's going to be the son of a living God, born in your body. And he will save his people from their sins. He'll be the one to bring salvation. Now, what happens to Mary to start with? Remember we looked at that? What is the first thing that Mary does? Does she say, that's great. Gee whiz, that's wonderful. How great a message. The first thing she says is, how can these things be? In other words, she's a normal human being. When she first hears the gospel, she thinks it's crazy. She thinks it's impossible. In fact, I said then, I'll say right now, one of the best ways for you to be sure you've really heard the gospel

period of time in which you're incredulous. If you're not incredulous, I don't think you've really heard the size of what's being stated. But in fact, the conviction of the Holy Spirit can start even in that form. Mary gets all agog, all upset. How can this be? This is crazy. This is impossible. And in many cases, that's how the beginning of the work of the Spirit starts. That's the way the Spirit works. Convicting means you suddenly find yourself bombarded with questions. There's people who come to Redeemer and I find that in the very beginning they just start to say, this is impossible, this is too much. I mean, what about this and what about this and what about this and what about this? That is the beginning of a conviction of the Holy Spirit. Why? Because in the past they were indifferent about religion. It wasn't something that bothered them. They thought it was a nice thing for people. And suddenly, very often the first stage of the work of the Holy Spirit is that you find yourself suddenly getting bombarded with questions. I mentioned two weeks ago that I was reading the biography of C. Everett Koop. He was our immediate past surgeon general, a great pediatric surgeon. And in his biography, he tells the story of his conversion. I'll return to it in a minute. But he says when he first started going to the Presbyterian church in Philadelphia on Sundays, is to sit in the balcony and he said, I really got irritated with the minister. The minister's name was Donald Gray Barnhouse. So the very first times I listened to him preach, I said, who does he think he is? He says, but after a few weeks, I began to realize that I couldn't retool my Christianity. I couldn't retool my parents' faith. It was something that it either had to be new to me or I had to reject. And you see, as soon as that began to happen, that was the beginning of the work of the Spirit of God. When you begin to recognize that these things are not indifferent, when you start to say, how can these things be? This is impossible. When you find yourself bombarded with questions, it's because the lover prosecutor is beginning to work. So let me move on and show you how you can tell this is happening. That's the general, a conviction that this is important, that I have to do something about it, as Koop said, that I really couldn't just retool my parents' Christianity, but it had to be new for me. How does that get more specific? How do you know that's happening? I'll move to it in a second, but let me just, at this point, take the opportunity to ask you a question. Has this happened to you? The teaching of this passage is that you cannot be a Christian unless you have had a sensation of someone dealing with you, of a divine presence asking you questions, cross-examining you, dealing with you at the center of things. Christianity is not a peripheral thing. It's not just a lifestyle. It means you're moved in the center of your being and someone's dealing with you down there and you have a sensation that's happening. That's what this text says. That's what the Bible says throughout. You remember the poet we quoted two months ago who said, under other circumstances, he said, I am disturbed by the presence

that brings me the joys of elevated thought. You see? There's a presence that disturbs me with the joys of elevated thought. That's exactly how the Holy Spirit works. He disturbs you with thoughts that you haven't had before. Elevated thoughts, even the ones you don't like. very normal, I'm not saying it has to happen, but it's very normal that the first way you know the Holy Spirit is working on you is you are very upset. It's not a nice experience to be sitting in a witness chair being cross-examined by the opposition, is it? You sweat. You say, well, I don't know, did I say that? I think I said that. I mean, you feel like somebody's got you by the throat. That's what a prosecutor does. You may be very upset about it. You may wish you could go back to the place where you didn't care about these things anymore. You wish you could divest yourself of the whole problem of religion, but you can't, because it's in you. What is in you? It's the mission of the Spirit.

Okay, Christianity is not just an interesting set of guidelines for living that maybe you can take, and maybe you not take or maybe you take a few of them? Oh, no. I have been disturbed by the presence of something that disturbs me with the joys of elevated thought. Is that happening to you? Well, you say, how do I know? Here. Jesus breaks it down. And he says, the Spirit doesn't just sort of disturb you in general, even though maybe that's how it starts. But the Spirit goes after conviction of three things. And I tell you, these three things are very important. In some ways, I find that when I'm talking to somebody who's wrestling and seeking God, I very often can actually go through them as a kind of inventory. Where are they? There's three things of sin, of righteousness, and judgment. Sometimes people have got one or even two, but not all of them. They've got to come together. They do come together. The Spirit gets you through all of them. Maybe not in the same way. You know, Mary took weeks to get through them. between the time that Gabriel spoke to her and the time that she got it all when she was talking to Elizabeth, her cousin? Siever Koop said it took him a year. The Philippian jailer, an instant. The 3,000 people that were preached to on Pentecost, instantly. We can't say how it has to happen, but the question is, has it happened to you? Or are you actually somebody who's just complacent? and indifferent about religious things. Now, what are those three things? Sin, righteousness, and judgment. When you read Koop's biography, you'll find that there's two pages in which he tells, very briefly and very offhandedly in some ways, the story of his conversion. But what's so wonderful is that it's a perfect outline of John 16. I know, of course, he didn't take out John 16 to write it out. In fact, whenever you listen to anybody giving a fairly complete account faith in Christ, it follows the same outline because it's the mission of the Spirit. Here's what he said. He says, the first thing he began to realize, number one, he said, I began to realize I was only a nominal Christian trying my best to be decent, but that my efforts to reform myself were of no avail, unquote. See, the first thing he began to realize was that even though he was trying to be a decent person, and he was trying to live the life best he could. He began to realize that he really wasn't improving. He really wasn't that good a person. And that all of his efforts to make himself a better person were to no avail.

Secondly, he says, one day I began to realize that the essence of religion was very different than what I thought it was. The essence of Christianity was not what we do, but what Christ has done for us. He said, I began to realize that I had the whole focus wrong, the essence of religion was not what we do, but what Christ has done for us. And he says, I began to realize that either my sins were on my shoulders or were on Christ's shoulders, one or the other. And I had to decide which it was. So you see, the first thing he began to be convicted of was insufficiency. I was a decent person, but I really was trying to reform myself, but it was to no avail. Secondly, he began to be convicted that there was a provision made for him. Jesus had done something. No, Jesus had done everything. Everything.

Then thirdly, he said, one day, he was sitting in the service. It had been almost a year. He said most of the time in the early part of the year he had been arguing with the preacher in his heart saying, that's stupid. That's dumb. Who do you think you are? He says, but bit by bit by bit it began to fall into place. He says, one Sunday I realized I wasn't observing worship anymore. I was a participant. So I suddenly realized I believed it all. He says, when that happened, he says, I suddenly felt and recognized the fact that I was in. That he had saved me, he had embraced me. And he says, my whole life changed. First of all, he said, I didn't see my life anymore as just a series, a disconnected series of random coincidences and dilemmas. But rather, I realized it was a plan. It was set. God had me. I was safe. I was secure.

And he said, I began to study the Word of God and realized I had to bring everything underneath the Word of God and I had to do everything according to the guidance of his Word. He was convicted of three things. First of all, he was convicted of sin. Secondly, he was convicted of a provision, something Jesus had done for him. And thirdly, he was convicted that now he had to live for Jesus. in him and he had to give him, he had to put himself under Jesus' authority. And those three things have got to happen to you because that's the Spirit's program for anybody who comes to Christ. There's plenty of people who have only got one of them down. In some cases even two of them are not willing in a sense to go all the way. If you're convicted of sin, convicted of righteousness, and then convicted of judgment, and you say, I'm in. I'm there. That's the way the Holy Spirit brings you through. Let me break those down for you try to give you a little bit more explanation. First of all, he says, the Holy Spirit will convict you of sin because men do not believe in me. That's what it says. Now, what does that mean? Why does that have to come first? Why does the Holy Spirit have to make us feel bad in order to make us feel good? That's because that's the way things work. Common sense. Try to get somebody to a doctor who doesn't think she has to go to a doctor. What do you do? do? You have to argue, don't you? What do you have to do? You have to prosecute. You have to convict her of sickness. You've got to say, look at the symptoms. Look what it says here in the book. You know, you grab a magazine article out and it says, look, the magazine article says this and this and this happened, then you need to go see a doctor about this. You're convicting her of sin. You're actually convicting her of sickness, I mean. It's just natural. And here's why. Conviction of sin has got to happen before salvation, and what he did on the cross, anything but a concept. Because your love for the helper is completely conditioned by your awareness of your need for the help. You see, if somebody comes up to you, you're getting ready to go on a bus. Most of us would probably feel this way. If you were about to get onto a bus and somebody came up and said, oh, can I help you? You might look at that person and not say, oh, how wonderful that you're willing to help me on you would say, what do I look like? What's the matter with me? You wouldn't help me on the bus. Huh? You see, the point is, uh-uh. It doesn't matter how good-hearted the help is. It doesn't matter how sincere. It doesn't matter. You will respond in love to the degree that you feel you need that help. If somebody offers you help and you don't feel you need it, it's an insult. If somebody offers you help and you think you need it a little bit, that's nice. and if somebody offers you help and you're desperate for it, that person becomes your savior. So it all depends on your consciousness, you see, all of it. When you, Jesus says to Simon the Pharisee, who comes into it, he thinks he's a pretty good person, so when Jesus Christ arrives, he shakes his hand, he says, come on in and eat. but there's a woman there who knows she's a sinner and she comes in and she wipes his hair she takes her hair and wipes Jesus' feet and washes them with her hair and with her tears and Simon says, don't you know what kind of woman this is? and Jesus turns and says, Simon you're polite to me she embraced me she has found me and you have not You know why? The one who's forgiven much loves much. The one who's forgiven little loves little. Do you see what she's saying? Let me be as practical as possible. Is the thought of the cross of Christ, is the thought of Jesus dying on the cross the most thrilling, galvanizing, and comforting thought that you can possibly have? Do you weep over it when you think of it? Or let me be really, really, really, let me ask you a real acid test. Does the thought of Jesus dying on the cross you that it gives you the courage to face anything? Can you shake off any fears when you think about it? Does it comfort you no matter what's happening to you?

If you look at the early Christians who were so thrilled and galvanized by the thought that Jesus had died for them that when they were sent into the lions, they went in there with a smile on their lips. They went to the lions with a smile on their lips. And you look at them and you say, gosh, how could I be like that? The cross of Christ and the knowledge of Jesus dying for them just it gave them such a courage. They could face the lions with a smile on their lips. I can't even face my boss. You know, I wish that the thought of the cross of Jesus Christ thrilled me like it thrilled them. I wish it made me great the way it made them feel great. You want to know why they felt that way?

They knew they were sinners.

You see, if somebody offers you the same help, and you don't think you need it that much, it's nice. and you're desperate for it, they're a savior. You embrace them. You say, this is great.

If I, Tim Keller, find that the thought of the cross does not completely change me the way it changed them, what's the difference between me and them? Are they made of better stuff than me? Do they have more faith? Not exactly. They are more convicted of sin than me. Conviction of sin has to come first. of sin is what makes the knowledge that Jesus died for you a power instead of a concept.

It's got to happen. But let me give you a little better definition. What does it mean to be convicted of sin? I know what some of you are thinking. It just means to feel bad that sometimes you lie and sometimes you cheat and sometimes you fail. No. Listen, you have a natural, you have something in your head called a conscience. And without the Holy Spirit, it goes off all the time. You lie. Your conscience goes, ooh. Right? If you hurt somebody, your conscience goes, ooh. You break the Ten Commandments, your conscience can get after you. But we're not talking about the work of natural conscience. We're talking about the conviction of the Holy Spirit. And Jesus tells you what that conviction is. It's something deeper than just feeling like a bad person. He says, convicts them of sin because they do not believe in me. Here's what happened to Coop. Coop did not just suddenly feel like, oh, I guess I break the law a lot more than I thought. Coop began to see this. He says, I began to realize that I was trying to reform myself. Coop got convicted of self-trust. Please, listen, give me 120 seconds on this one. this. There's something deeper than just being convicted of sins with an S on the end. That's something that can happen without the Holy Spirit, but it's only the Holy Spirit that can show you that the reason you're living the way you are, you're doing it in such a way as to try to be your own savior. See, everybody tries to make themselves presentable. In the Bible, the word righteous means to be right with somebody or to be presentable. How do you make yourself presentable? Some people, everybody has to have a way of looking themselves in the mirror and saying, I'm acceptable. I don't have to be ashamed. In other words, everybody does that. Everybody goes about trying to make themselves righteous. Some of you say, I do it through my children. Some of you do it through your career. Some of you do it through your physique. Some of you do it through ambition. Some of you do it through money. What is it that makes you feel presentable, acceptable to significant others and to yourself?

The Holy Spirit's job is to come in and to show you that everything you're doing is a way of trying to make yourself presentable and it won't work. The Holy Spirit's job of convicting you of sin is to show you what those strategies are and show you those strategies don't work. Let me give you two examples, the two most basic examples. Some people say, God should favor me because I'm better than most people. Hey, I've raised my kids. I've been faithful to my spouse. I'm pretty moral and decent and honest. I take care of people. I mean, I work pretty hard. I'm better than most people. Most people are out for themselves. I'm living a decent life. I'm living a better life than most, God should favor me, God should accept me, God should hear my prayers, if there is a God for that basis. What the Holy Spirit does when he comes to somebody like that, like Paul, and like Coop, is he begins to show that person it's not good enough to be better than most. Do you love God with all your heart, soul, strength, and mind? That's what you owe him. Do you love him with a hundred percent of your heart, a Does he really come first in your life? That's what you owe him. And you see, those of us who feel like we're pretty good people, better than most, the Koops, the St. Pauls, when they come under the Holy Spirit, when they come under that conviction, they don't just think, oh, here's a sin and here's a sin. They begin to see, I've been trying to be my own Savior. I have been trusting in my good works. But now here's the other kind of person that the Spirit comes to. to a person who's got the inferiority complex. The Spirit comes to a person who's always feeling bad, like a failure. A person who's always beating him or herself up. A person who some, you know, you keep yourself in situations that are really bad for you. You keep yourself in destructive relationships. You keep yourself in bad situations. You know why? Because you say, I'm not worthy. I don't deserve any better than this. And the Holy Spirit comes to you and does not make you feel even worse about your failures. When the Holy Spirit convicts you of sin, it convicts you that you're not trusting in him either, that you're trying to be your own Savior because you're trying to atone for your own sin. You're nailing yourself to the cross. You're putting the spear in your side. You're putting the crown of thorns on your own head and you're thinking, if only I suffer enough, if only I feel bad enough, if only I grovel enough, maybe somehow I can pay for all of my failures. When the Holy Spirit comes to a person like that, that person is convicted that your real sin is that you've been trusting in yourself.

Occasionally somebody comes along to me and says, the trouble with Christianity is if you tell people about all this terrible sin, they'll feel so unworthy and they won't want to come to God. You don't get it then. The Holy Spirit, the Holy Spirit comes to you and says, you are sinful, therefore you've got to go to God. self-esteem says you're a sinner and therefore you can't go to God. The conviction of the Spirit never tells you can't go to God because the only reason, the only basis on which you'd say I'm too unworthy to go to God is on the basis of your performance. It's on the basis of making yourself presentable on the basis of self-trust.

And therefore, you see, the person who's got a superiority complex that says I'm better than most people, God should receive me, the Spirit comes and says, you're basing your on good works. You're being your own Savior. The person with the inferiority complex, a person who says, I'm too unworthy to go to God, the Spirit comes and says, you're basing your relationship with God on good works. You're trying to be your own Savior. You're trying to crucify yourself. You're trusting yourself too. And therefore, you see the difference between Christians and religious people. Christians repent of their sins. So do religious people. We all know that we lie. We cheat. We all know we do things wrong. The difference between a Christian and a religious person is religious people repent of their sins, but Christians also repent of their righteousness. Christians also say, my best deeds, my efforts to be good are really just self-trust. All along, all I've been doing is trying to keep control of my life by earning my way in. and as C. Everett Koop says, I suddenly saw that it's not what I did but what Christ has done. So conviction of sin always means I begin to see that all of my good and bad things have just all been self-trust all along, my own efforts. And I suddenly say, no longer do I rest in these things. No longer do I rest in these false strategies of making myself presentable. And then we turn over to conviction of righteousness. Inconviction of righteousness means you go to the scripture and you see for the first time what the Bible actually says about the way into God's presence. See, the Bible is not just after forgiveness and pardon and peace and love and joy. The Bible is there to say, we can give you, the Bible says, Christianity can give you what it takes to walk into the presence of God and look him in the face. Paul says in Romans 1 17 he says I am not ashamed of the gospel for it is the power of God unto salvation for in the gospel a righteousness from God is revealed and is received by faith see what Koop said is he said I thought that it was all what I do but now I see Christianity is all what Jesus Christ has done Koop says the big change came when I realized it's not my righteousness that I develop and give to God But it's God's righteousness that he develops and gives to us. What is that? It's the righteousness that he developed by sending Jesus Christ on earth. He lived a perfect life. And he died a death and paid all of our sins. So the superiority person, hey, Jesus didn't just live a better life than most. He lived a perfect life. He loved the Lord his God with all his heart, soul, strength, and mind. His neighbor is himself. And the inferiority types, Jesus Christ paid for every debt. He paid it all. He took all the condemnation. He took all the punishment. So stop punishing yourself. Jesus Christ's righteousness is the thing that actually makes you worthy. To be convicted of sin is not just to feel bad. It means to see that all along you've been working to trust yourself and develop your own righteousness. And to be convicted of righteousness means to see that Jesus has made a righteousness for us that we receive whole and perfect and complete. and we receive it by faith the day that we finally see that we've been trusting ourselves and we start trusting him.

My focus was all wrong, the surgeon said. I thought Christianity is what I did. It's what he does. I thought it was me developing a righteousness to give to God on the last day. Oh no, it's God developing a righteousness to give you on the day that you believe.

You know, you have a perfect example of it. Jesus deals with the woman caught in adultery. Do you remember that? We talked about it back in the summer. He doesn't say to the woman caught in adultery, he doesn't say, I don't condemn you because this isn't a sin. Sexual ethics are a matter of personal choice. Nor does he say, this is a sin and therefore I condemn you for this heinous sexual sin. No. Jesus breaks all the molds and he says, neither do I condemn thee, go and sin no more. See on the one hand he calls it sin. He doesn't let her off the hook. He doesn't blame shift. This is sin. But then he says neither do I condemn thee. You know why he can't say that? The moment he said that he knew what it meant. What he was saying is sister I don't condemn you because I've taken your condemnation.

The stoning it's going to happen to me. The spearing it's going to happen to me. The punishment it's going to happen to me. The nails it's going to happen to me.

Your righteousness isn't sufficient, my dear sister, but I have created a righteousness for you.

Neither do I condemn thee. Go and sin no more. Now, when that makes sense to you, it means the Holy Spirit has really begun to enlighten you. There are people who have heard this message and read this message and never got it. And on the day you begin to say,

why did I miss that? Frank Barker, who's a hero of mine he's a Presbyterian minister in my denomination when he was in seminary already preaching, preparing for the ministry a very religious person a chaplain led him to faith in Christ by telling him Frank, why are you so anxious all the time? and Frank says, I don't know I'm really trying my best to be a good Christian well Frank, why would God even receive you into heaven?

Well, the chaplain says, Frank, Christianity is not a matter of you developing a righteousness to give to God, but it's a matter of God developing a righteousness to give to you. Where does it say that, said Frank. The chaplain shows it to Frank, and he got it. It happened very quickly. It dawned on him. And his whole life was revolutionized and changed. And the next, he began to meet with the chaplain a few times, and one day he says to the chaplain, why didn't Martin Luther know about this? The chaplain says, what do you mean? Martin Luther knew all about it. I got it from Martin Luther. Well, says Frank, I took a class on Martin Luther last semester and I read his commentary on the Galatians and I studied it and there was nothing about that in here. I read that. And the chaplain says, Frank, go back and read that book again. So Frank went out and got the book. He got an A in the course. He began to open the book and he began to page through it. Of course, he had all sorts of marginal notes and he had all sorts of underlining. and he said, guess what, on every page, every page, highlighted, underlined, there it was, the Gospel. What was the matter with me? You can't see it until the Holy Spirit opens your eyes to it. That's what this passage teaches us. Well, finally, how do you know if this has happened? Let me ask you a question. See, being convicted of sin does not just mean I feel bad because I break the Ten Commandments. Conviction of sin means the Spirit of God comes and shows you that everything you've been doing is just a strategy to make yourself presentable. He sort of flushes you out of all the places you've been trying to hide and make yourself righteous. And he begins to show you that all of your, even your best efforts, are just strategies of keeping control of your life so that you can trust in yourself and be your own Savior. Has that happened to you? Then secondly, has he shown you the beauty and perfection of what Jesus Christ has done? His death completely pays for all of your sins so you don't have to keep atoning for them. And his life completely satisfies the requirements of the law so that you don't have to worry if you trust in him that somehow you're not going to be presentable. He stands before you as your advocate in heaven, the way the Holy Spirit stands with you as an advocate on earth. That's why he says, He will convict you of righteousness, for I go to be with the Father. I stand before the Father. so that when the Father looks at you, you'll be holy and blameless and outspot and free from accusation and incite. Has that happened to you? Well, the third thing is the way you can tell. If both of those things happen to you, automatically, the third thing, you're convicted of sin, righteousness, and judgment. Judgment for the prince of this world is cast out. That means the devil has been condemned. And that means that a Christian is somebody two stages, comes to realize that you're safe, that your life is no longer just a kind of random pattern of dilemmas and coincidences, but rather there's a plan and there's a map. You see, the word judge in the Bible means to rule. And therefore, what Coop did was as soon as he realized his conviction of sin and his conviction of righteousness, he realized it was what Jesus had done for him, he immediately turned around and said, now I have to live for this one. He has taken care of me. Evil has been judged. And now I have to live for him. I have to give myself to him. I have to live according to his word. Has that happened to you? Until all those three things have happened, the Spirit is not done with his mission, and you have not come to Christ. Christian friends, here's what I'd like you to do with this. Some of you are very discouraged because you're working with people that just don't seem to see the light. that it's not up to your eloquence. Instead, my friends, pray that God the Holy Spirit would, with a holy and loving violence, pull down blessings on the heads of your neighbors and friends and family members. And I also want you to consider this. You need to live as if you're loved. Do you realize how invincible a person you'd be if you continually went back through that same cycle? Allow yourself to remember

how lost you were and allow yourself to remember how complete the salvation is so that every day you can get up and say, The stars may fall from heaven but his love for me will stand because his love for me is not based on my perfection. It's based on his perfection. The determining factor in my relationship with the Father is not my past or my present but Christ's past and Christ's present. You've got to learn how to talk to yourself like that

And is there anybody here who's not sure where you stand? Then keep this in mind. Question one, have you come to see that even your best deeds are just ways of trying to keep control of your life and that they will never make you suitable for the Father? Secondly, have you come to see that Jesus Christ has done everything for you and that you have got to put all of your faith and trust in him? And then thirdly, that means that you sign off authority over your own life. You give your life to him so that he now calls the shots and he is your Lord. Can you come to that position? The only way that will happen is if, out of the secret energy of the Spirit of God on the inside, you sense a power dealing with you and working with you and lovingly prosecuting you until you finally see the truth. Is that happening to you? then cooperate, will you please? You know what you should do? Now that you know what's going on, do this as we're going to pray, and then we're going to take up the offering. During the offering, don't just think, well, in five minutes I'll be out, what do I have to do first? Think about this. Then, because we're closed with our final hymn, but think about this during the offering. So that's what's happening. Well, oh Holy Spirit, well, loving prosecutor, I see what your mission is now. I don't want it to be a mission impossible. I'm coming to you. I'm coming to him. Let's pray. Our Father, now we ask that you would grant to us, as we listen to the music as the offering goes on, that we might all consider the greatness of your salvation and that we might all find that your Spirit is dealing with us in our center. We ask that you would help us to apply these texts to our heart by the power of your Spirit as we seek you now. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.
