Before that, I was raised in a Jewish home. It was mostly a secular humanist view of the world, and our view was to be self-reliant was the most important thing. And so I lived a very diligent, hard-working life, and I felt I was doing all the right things, except it wasn't working. And all the exercise and study and nutrition and all the rest of it made no difference. and by November of last year, my work was in disarray and it was having a terrible effect on my marriage. And I realized I had no floor. I had nothing that could guide me or give me a sense of what was the right course. And through friends and through this ministry, I became a Christian in July. And the last year has been remarkable. And in the last two weeks, it's been particularly remarkable because I found that in the midst of a very intense project on which my job really depended, as everyone around me was becoming very uptight, everyone was getting sick, people were bouncing off the ceilings,

I found a sense of peace and grace that I cannot account for as coming from within. in. In fact, it was the realization that I cannot generate this on my own that really carried me. And it was the sense that even if I feel anxious or fearful, that my job is not to pray to God that he will give me peace, but that I will have light enough and strength enough to remove whatever is stopping me, stopping his grace from coming in, and to be patient enough to let whatever he is giving me, come, when it's to come, and where it's to head for. And when I prayed those sorts of things, I found, not instantaneously, but over a short period of time, a sense of great peace that I really am very, very grateful for. And for that, I thank God. Thank you. Hi, I'm Laura Fels, and I've been asked to read some testimonies from people who submitted them anonymously to be read. The first one is from a man. I was a victim of sexual abuse until age 12. At age 15, I had a complete emotional breakdown and became learning disabled, barely graduating from high school and failing a course in my senior year. At the age of 20, my sister, who had recently accepted Christ, shared how to be born again. I accepted Christ that day, and he literally gave me my mind back. Today, 24 years later, after barely finishing high school, I have two master's degrees and 40 hours into a Ph.D. in education, all because he put broken lines back together. The next one also from a man. A way to be there when I was needed. A stream of people to help. A lot of dinners from friends. A precious time to read the Bible together. A comfort beyond words. A peace that truly passes all understanding. A profound experience from his love. He gave it all to me. How can I possibly thank him adequately? The next one's from a young woman. I used to complain a few years ago that my testimony was boring, that it lacked the drama I would hear in others' testimonies. I had committed my life to him at an early age, but my Christian life was a sad mixture of pride in my own ability to live a Christian life and really trusting God. I could never understand how other people claiming to be Christians could have such uneven lifestyles. Obedience seemed so easy to me. During a period of my life when I was highly active and visible in the Christian community, with a fulfilling personal testimony to others and a true heart for serving God and a desire to know him better, when I least expected it, I fell flat. As a ministry opportunity, I had agreed to meet a friend for dinner. He was a Christian man who had returned to an extremely irresponsible lifestyle. style. We returned to my apartment after I had an uncharacteristic amount to drink. Even inviting him into my apartment was unusual for me. I couldn't believe the next morning that I had slept with him and was full of repentance and remorse. A few weeks later, I found I had become pregnant. I couldn't believe this had happened to me. I was terrified and ashamed. I felt I couldn't even tell my closest friends in New York because of my pride and fear. I immediately ruled out abortion, but my heart was full of anger and selfishness. I prayed for a miscarriage. Although I prayed for true grace, strength, and obedience in my heart, I wanted to rid myself of the baby. I tried to convince myself that the baby was a product of sin, but God showed me that this baby was his own miracle of creation, even with the sinful circumstances. I prayed with unending tears. My pregnancy was difficult due to the demands of my job. As my health got steadily worse, I began to fear that I would bear a damaged child. When a miscarriage threatened, rather than go into the hospital and try to save the pregnancy, I opted to end it. Afterwards, not trying to save my child. Although others tried to comfort me, saying that God gave me the miscarriage as his providential care for me, I knew in my heart that I just wanted to be rid of a problem, even if it meant killing a person. However, as a result of this, God has blessed me with a richer and deeper experience of his forgiveness than I have ever known before. Now when I see Christians who have stumbled, or non-believers living sinful lives, Instead of self-righteous pride, I am full of compassion. Especially for women considering abortions, I share their pain. I see their need for practical solutions to the havoc this has created in their lives and their need for loving support. And I see their need for Jesus, who offers the only freedom from guilt. When I realized that my sins had cost God the death of his only son, I knew that he could forgive me the sin that had first led to the conception and then to the death of my child. Jesus said, she who has been forgiven much loves much. He could have been speaking about me. I grew up in an Anglo-Catholic household with two reasonably devout parents. I think in our house, being a Christian was sort of a code of behavior. It had nothing to do, really, with any relationship that anyone had with Jesus Christ. By the time I was 18, I'd had a lot of Sunday school, a parochial boarding school, but I had no relationship with God. My perception of God was fear-based, with a punishing God who would want nothing to do with me. Concurrent with the beginning of college, I embarked on what was to become a 25-plus year bout with alcoholism. bad to worse, and at the end I was left bankrupt emotionally, physically, and most of all spiritually. I was incapable of being a husband, a father, or even a productive member of society. And although I'd always been an active Episcopalian, my prayer life at the end was reduced to God help me prayer with a why me chorus, which was so reminiscent of the victim that I had become. I couldn't understand how a good upstanding Episcopalian could get himself into that kind of a mess. Well, God did help me through an intervention engineered by my wife over four years ago, and it was in the hospital that I began to build a real relationship with God. I was able to thank God for saving me from certain destruction and leading me to, for me, Alcoholics Anonymous. Shortly after I got sober, I went to a dinner at the Waldorf sponsored by an organization many of you are familiar with. And while the speaker was very eloquent in talking about his personal relationship with the Lord, I was even more impressed by the serenity and the peace of mind that so many of the people there had. They seemed to have an inner happiness that I desperately wanted. I prayed that night to have a personal relationship with the Lord, and while the heavens didn't open, my heart did. A year later, I came to Redeemer for a look-see. I've been prodded by a friend from Executive Ministries to hang around more Christians. And I'm still here, so the rest is history. My life has changed dramatically. I especially just want to say something about my behavior. I'm much calmer, and I think I'm beginning to know the true meaning of humility. My life is in the Lord's hands, and I know He'll take care of me. In business, I'm learning to take an action and leave the results. I've got to say I rely heavily on Romans 8.28. All things work for good for those who believe in him. And I might add I believe the Lord used my alcoholism to lead me to him. Lastly, my massive anxiety attacks of old have gone, and that peace of God mentioned in Philippians 4.7 is increasing in my life a day at a time. Thank you. God bless. Hi, my name is Pamela Scott. and I'd like to tell you the story of how I found Christ and experienced the resurrection in my own life in April of this last year. I had spent a lot of time wandering in and out of various liberal Christian congregations. I had been baptized as a Presbyterian in Delaware, confirmed in the Congregational Church in Connecticut, and had been attending a Unitarian church here in the city. I guess you could say I'd never felt a real need for commitment because I felt that I was in control of my life and doing just fine, thank you. I was content in my profession and was in a very stable long-term relationship with a man who was divorced and had a lovely son who I loved very much and had basically counted on marrying. In April of last year, though, he quite unexpectedly left me. My world fell apart, not only because I lost him but because I lost this relationship with this lovely little boy. I became terribly depressed, began to drink uncontrollably, and basically felt that my life was over. I really didn't know what else to do but to get on my knees and pray, pray very hard, very long. It was only through Christ and through letting him into my life that I was able to survive this devastating experience, get back on my feet, and move forward with my life and live in peace. peace. Today, my life is much better because I went through this pain. I can talk to other people about it, and I have got a powerful relationship with God, one that I didn't have before. I really feel that I started a brand new spiritual journey then, one that eventually led me to Redeemer, and I'm very, very grateful for that. I'm Charlene Shepherd. God led me to himself through a Christian guy. Even though I grew up in a wonderful, large Christian missionary family, Bill, I kind of wish you hadn't gone before me. Even though I grew up in this wonderful, big Christian and even missionary family, I spent my teen years burdened with guilt. Guilt over my motivations for the good things I did. You wouldn't think that I do presentations all the time, would you? so I spent life as a guilty teenager because I was guilty over my motivation over the good things I did and guilty over the things that I didn't get around to doing I chose to go to university as far away from my family as I could find and it was hard to do to find a city where my parents didn't have loving Christian friends

I had decided that I was different, and I pointed out to my friends, I'm the black sheep. Yeah, my parents, my family, yeah, they're into this Christian thing, but, you know, hey, I'm me, and I'm fun, and whatever. One of my biggest problems with Christians had been, I had just seen one too many people say, well, let's leave it up to the Lord and not take action. basically not take responsibility or take action. So I saw Christians as weak. Silly me. This is hard. My period of rebellion lasted until about 16 months ago. During this time, I really lived that verse in Romans. They exchanged the truth of God for a lie and worshipped and served created things rather than the creator who is to be forever praised. During this period, I tried to spare my family from the details of my rebellion. They continued to pray for me, even though they didn't know the details. They knew that I wasn't in a church, that I wasn't worshiping God. Over a year ago, at Thanksgiving, my brother set me up with this guy. And if it hadn't been a Lakers game, whoops, Kings game, I'm a sports fan. If it hadn't been a Kings game, I would have said, forget it. This guy's a Christian. I don't want to be around him. I went, and I was really attracted to the guy. And through several hours of conversation, a week later, these hours of conversation, it was with my brother long distance and with this fellow long distance. A week later, I asked the Lord to come in my life and take charge of it because I'd really made a mess of it. So that was Thanksgiving over a year ago. And I dated this fellow very seriously and really thought that he was the right one. Through a series of pretty sad events, sad to me, the Lord really showed me that this relationship wasn't his plan for our lives. So Redeemer has meant a lot to me. it's meant fellowship and grounding in God's word. And I can sing Hosanna. Scott, sorry, it's Hosanna. And the choir and my parents are here tonight, and my whole family is rejoicing that I'm back with the Lord and that he's really in control of my life, or I'm trying to let him be in control of my life. So thank you all. Hi, I'm Joe Carey. I'm going to read three testimonies which have been given to be read anonymously. The first is of a man. I grew up in a Christian home and was raised in a fundamental church. I accepted Christ as my saviour at a very young age. I used to admire people who gave great testimonies because mine seemed so boring. People should thank God for boring testimonies. I wish mine could still be. Entering a secular college opened up an entire new world to me. I jumped in headfirst, living only for pleasure and putting God in the back seat. I stopped associating with my Christian friends and became engulfed in the New York club scene and gay lifestyle. I found someone to share my life with and for the past 13 years I believed I was happy and that this lifestyle was not wrong, even though I knew God said it was. I had a good job, status in the community and a companion. I thought that this was all I needed. Then suddenly my world fell apart. My companion was admitted to the hospital and diagnosed with AIDS. instead of blaming God I was propelled to him and asked him to forgive me of my foolish ways and I rededicated my life to him I brought my friend a bible without knowing how he would react to it the following day while visiting him still hospitalized the phone rang and when I answered the caller assumed that I was my sick friend. I explained, no, I'm his friend. Barely able to speak, my friend turned and said, no, you're my brother. I asked, your brother? He responded, yes, my brother in Christ. Those were the most beautiful words I ever heard. Though this dreadful disease is slowing and painfully taking my friend's life, Thank God even for AIDS as it has brought us both back to him. The second testimony is also of a man. I was brought up in a non-Christian home and in a dysfunctional family. Divorce was part of that dysfunction. My family had liberal views on everything. At a very young age, 14, I was allowed to go partying at all the New York clubs. I never got into drugs or drinking, but I did begin having sex with men who made the club scene. At 18, I got to know the Lord and began growing with Him and walking His way. I want to thank God for the victory and changing power of His Word. I have been saved for ten years now, and I am thankful for God bringing me to a church where I can be open about my past without fear of judgment or condemnation. I used to think I had to choose between churches that expected a miracle deliverance from life-dominating problems like homosexuality, on the one hand, and churches who didn't think that you could or should change if you were gay. The miracle churches didn't think you should have to work or struggle to overcome your problems, and the others thought that you should just accept them. God helped me to realize that no matter what your sin patterns are, he expects you to fight against them. Sin is just sin. sin. Homosexuality is no different in its essence than any other sin. It has to be rejected by God's grace and overcome by a daily walk with Christ. I just want to say how thankful I am for this church. I feel I can finally open up to the leaders like Tim and Jeff and everyone without fear of judgement. I have freedom in Christ and I want to give God the glory. I want everyone to know that if they feel they have too great a sin to talk to someone about, they're wrong. No one will judge you. You will be met with open arms and helpful advice. I want to encourage any one of you who has a life-dominating problem to talk to someone in the church about it. We are all sinners, and it is God's grace that has saved all of us. So no one is better or worse than anyone else. This third testimony is of an older man. I was a transsexual for 15 years, regularly cross-dressing, passing as a woman and preparing for a sex change operation. A friend shared the gospel with me after I got arrested and was finally willing to admit that I wanted to change. God has healed me, not without suffering and struggle. I have been free both of the behavior and the desire for it for 20 years now. I give God all the glory for my deliverance. Hello, my name's Wick Ware, and I want to tell you how the Lord has used the Redeemer music ministry to draw me closer to him. Over the years, I've been a big fan of many musical styles, ranging from R&B to pop to jazz to classical, and I had always thought of, quote, Christian music as limited primarily to traditional styles. The Lord has been chipping away at this barrier in my mind for a while. However, the wall came tumbling down a couple of months ago when I fully recognized the warped lyrics in a song sung by one of my old favorite musicians. This happened on a Saturday night in a dance club. The following night, here at the Sunday evening service, I was filled with joy when I fully understood in my heart that all musical Our musical styles are pleasing to the Lord if we direct them to Him. The music ministry here was clearly used to draw me closer to God in a lasting way. We need to watch out for the tendency to compartmentalize our lives. In this situation, I had God's music and my music. There was definitely some pain involved in this growth process, but it's hard to describe the joy that I now feel because He is Lord of all of my music. I got a confirmation from Scripture about this. In 1 Timothy chapter 4, Paul writes, For everything God created is good, and nothing is to be rejected if it is received with thanksgiving, because it is consecrated by the word of God and prayer. You shouldn't be intimidated by this word sermon. It's really left to me to read a passage of Scripture and to summarize and exhort. here's what I'd read to you. Romans 10, verse 9. A very simple verse, but when you stop and consider

just how full a verse it is, I would just like to let it lay on your heart and keep it there long enough for it to start to sink. Romans 10, verse 9. If you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised Him from the dead, you will be saved. It's a pretty basic statement. If you confess with a mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised Him from the dead, you will be saved. It's an interesting experience to go through this service when I had nothing to do with the planning of it. And also, in other words, I was sitting there with you. there's a lot of ups and downs to it. It was always excellently done, but there was joyful times, and then it got bittersweet. Then there were a couple of places where I felt like somebody had taken the wind out of me, punched me in the stomach, then brought back. There's a place in which you start off very joyful, and then I think one of the things that is very striking are the testimonies that don't go according to the storybook. You see, when you pray, Oh Lord, make me like your son Jesus Christ, usually you expect it to go a certain way. Some of you remember, I haven't done it in a long time, but there's a poem, or really a hymn, written by John Newton that I used to quote when I first got here kind of often. I'm not sure I remember it real well now, but it goes, John Newton says, I prayed, I asked the Lord that I might grow in faith and love and every grace, might more of his salvation know and seek more earnestly his face. And then he goes on and he says, I thought that in some favored hour, at once, he'd answer my request and subdue sin's reigning power, deal with my problems and give me rest. Instead, it goes on, instead, he made me feel the inner evil of my heart and let the angry powers of hell assault my soul in every part. Why is this, I trembling cried, wilt thou pursue thy worm to death? Tis in this way, the Lord replied, I answer prayers for grace and faith. These inward trials I employ from pride and self to set thee free and break thy schemes of earthly joy that thou mayest find thine all in me. me. You see, the resurrection is a basic principle of the Christian life. The ultimate principle, you see, or the ultimate expression of it, is when you see that when we die physically, we know we'll be raised. But it's also true that if you belong to him and you say, Lord, give me resurrection power, what he tends to do, give me that great power. I ask the Lord that I might grow in faith and love and every grace. It's typical if God's going to bring you through that he puts you through death experiences. And as a result, there was at least a couple of testimonies in there you heard that really take the wind out of your sails. I became a Christian and then things got bad. And then there were other testimonies that said everything was bad and then became a Christian and things got great. You see, God is not a tame God. And the resurrection principle therefore doesn't fit in with Hollywood kind of storybook things. Everything was terrible in my life. Then I found Christ and then everything is great. That's not the way go. That's not the way real testimonies go. Some of you were uncomfortable. I know that. Because I'm of your temperament. I'm the kind of person that, by and large, feels very uncomfortable when other people are having to be vulnerable and show their feelings. Some of you might have been uncomfortable because you're uncomfortable with the idea of a Jewish person or a person talking about being a Christian. Or a homosexual person saying, I had a change. Or some of you are uncomfortable with a subject of abortion. And we don't have to talk about those issues. You've got to realize that Christians are not really free to make up their own mind according to their whims or according to the culture. They've got to go to the scripture and they've got to say, the word of God is something I've got to deal with. And that's what all those people were doing. And if you're uncomfortable with that, then you would, in many cases, need to deal with those issues yourself. And I can understand you being uncomfortable but it could be that you're uncomfortable with the testimonies because you aren't sure. You're not sure where you stand with God. I used to be very uncomfortable with testimonies. Here's a testimony about testimonies. I used to be uncomfortable with testimonies because I used to sit there and say the audacity of those people to assume that they know that God loves them and that they belong to Him. And some of you are probably feeling like that. that. The reason you're feeling like that is actually because you are presuming an approach to religion which is false. You're saying, how can anybody know? I try my best. I pray. I try to live according to my standards. How can those people be so sure? And the answer is, you're unsure because essentially you're your own savior. You're trying to be your own savior and you're trying to be your own resurrection. But the gospel is that Jesus Christ has been raised for you. And if he's been And if you put your trust in the fact that he was raised for you, you will be saved. Instead of trying to do your own resurrecting. Instead of trying to put your own life together. Let me just close with this very important illustration. There was a number of men that went up on a mountain. And they were all tied together, as mountaineers are wont to do. Dozens of them. And they're all strained together. And unfortunately, the one at the bottom. You know, there's two key guys, you know. In every one of these. You know. In other words, here's a bunch of men. Maybe men or women. Up there. And there are two key persons. In that entourage. Going up a mountain. It's the top person. And the bottom person. And in this story. The bottom person fell. And as the bottom person fell. That person. Pulled the next guy off. And then the next person. Fell off. And that pulled the next person off. And off they fell. The next one. from the next one, until finally everybody was falling off into space except the last one. And that last person, the last man on the mountain, seeing what was happening, took his axe and with a mighty stroke dug into the mountain as far as he possibly could. And when he did that, of course, he suddenly felt the pull of all of the other persons who were out there suspended in space. And for him to hold on meant that all of the weight of those others was on him. And, of course, the rope was an absolute torture to him. Because in order to hold on and dig in, all of the rest of the weight of all those other people were on him. And the rope was just tugging at him. More than tugging. It was biting into him. It was virtually bisecting him. And yet he held on. And he endured the pain. And he endured the pain of all of their weight. And he pulled them up. One by one by one. Until they were all saved. And there was a. An old minister. That once put it this way. There's really two key people. In the human race. Adam. And Jesus. The first. And the second. Adam. Fell off the mountain. Pulled down the next one. Pulled us all down. Until it was only one man. Left on the mountain. Only one person. That hadn't fallen. Only one person that was still on the mountain. It was Jesus. With a great, big, mighty stroke, he put his axe in. But you see, in order to save us, all the weight of all the rest of us pulled on him and virtually bisected him. And actually did. But what happened was, he pulled us up. He was raised for our justification. Resurrection. A lot of you are out there saying, how could I really know that God could love somebody like me? The resurrection is the receipt we talked about this morning. Or put another way, if you were in the Old Testament days and you came on the Day of Atonement and you watched your high priest go back into the Holy of Holies to give the big offering for the sins of the people for the year, you'd be out there biting your finger saying, I wonder whether or not God will take the offering and will live in our midst and be our God. And it was dangerous for that priest to go back because if God didn't receive the offering, if God didn't receive it, God's presence was very lethal and he could die. So everybody sat there, bit their nails, waited to see would the priest come out. And when he emerged from the Holy of Holies, there was a cheer because we know that God has received our offering. He's satisfied. Our sins have been put behind us. When Jesus Christ came out of the grave, that was God's way of saying to you, it's all paid. He paid for everything. He was raised for justification. Of course I can love you. He is your resurrection, and he is your life. Now listen, consider the testimonies. Don't forget, yet, by the way, there's a number of testimonies that were not read, that were in this little pamphlet was put out. What's really great is there's a lot of spiritual resurrection going on continually in all of your lives. Thank him for it now. Bow with me, let's pray. Father, thank you that you're a God who raised Jesus from the dead, and because we're attached faith in spite of the fact that we've fallen. Because he was resurrected, he pulls us all up. Father, we thank you that tonight we were able to hear powerful testimony, some bittersweet, some so sweet. We thank you, Father, that you're not a tame God, but that when we pray, oh, resurrect us, you will bring us there, though very often by paths that we cannot foresee. see. We thank you for the fact that tonight there was triumphant moments and there were also moments that brought us up short, but we realize in every case you are in charge of our lives. You're bringing us through to life. And there's always a resurrection on the other side of the death experiences that we are going to have. We thank you that therefore we can face Monday. We can face the rest of our lives and we can say, death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.