Therefore, strengthen your feeble arms and weak knees. Make level paths for your feet, so that the lame may not be disabled, but healed. This is God's Word. This is one of the most important passages to me personally, one of the most important passages in my life. So whenever I read it, my heart, on a day like today, as I'm about to preach to you, I feel my heart very full. I feel my sinus is very full too.

But the important part is the heart.

We've been looking at the attributes of God,

and today we're looking at his wisdom. And we're going to be looking at his wisdom in a passage that doesn't use the word, it doesn't mention the word wisdom, but everywhere applies the wisdom of God. In the Bible, wisdom is more than being brilliant. If you're a sports fan, you know there's such a thing as a brilliant athlete who's got all the individual skills and can do it all, but doesn't know when to do it and when not to do it in order to win. To be brilliant is not to be wise. To be wise is to know the way to get there. In the Bible, wisdom is not only more than being brilliant. It's also more than being good. you might have a friend that's trapped in a terrible habit, in denial, and you know the right thing to say, but you say it at the wrong time. You say it in the wrong way. And just being good does not mean that you're wise. You might be naive. You might be idealistic. You might make it worse. To be wise is to know the right way to get there.

Now, Hebrews 12, what we just read, though it doesn't mention the wisdom of God, implies the wisdom of God throughout. It says in verse 7, endure hardship. And the word endure there is just a fun Greek word. It's a word, hupomene, which means to hyperstand. In spite of all the things that are crushing you down, in spite of all the things that are trying to grind you into the dust, stand up. Now, to stand up under tremendous pressure in Greek is not just is to stand. It's to hyperstand. The word endure means to hyperstand, to stand up, to stand straight, to stand firm, in spite of everything that's crushing you. Wouldn't you like to have endurance? Wouldn't you like to have the ability to hyperstand? This passage tells us that the only way to hyperstand, the only way to have endurance, the only way to have a kind of strength that enables you to face anything, thing is to see the wisdom of God in your hardships. The key text area is endure hardship, endure your troubles, endure your afflictions, endure your trials as discipline. Which means unless you see the wisdom of God in your personal hardships, you will not be a person of endurance. endurance. And in this text, there's actually, the Hebrews writer actually gives us three models of wisdom. And today we're only going to be able to look at two. I'll mention the third one. Three models of wisdom. It says, unless you see that God's wisdom works itself out in your life along these three models, God has the wisdom of a gym coach or a trainer. God has the wisdom of a father, and God has the wisdom of a physician. Now, you see, in human life, a trainer, a father, and a physician all have one thing in common. They intentionally hurt you.

They intentionally bring pain into your life. They intentionally frustrate you and bring stress to you so that you may be healed, so that you may grow, so that you may develop, so that you may make progress. And unless you see the kind of wisdom that a great trainer has, the kind of wisdom that a great father has, the kind of wisdom that a great physician has, is the kind of wisdom that God has and is working in your life. Unless you understand that, you will not be able to endure. chore. You will be a crybaby. You will not be able to stand. Now, we can't look at all three of these. I'm going to choose the first two because I think the first two basically hit it all anyway. God, see, if I was going to make it a three-point sermon, but I'm going to make it a two-point sermon, this is how the three points would go. Boy, not many people tell you this, you see. God has the wisdom of a trainer. Therefore, there is an order to our hardships. There's an order to Secondly, God has the wisdom of a father. Therefore, there's a loving purpose to our hardships. Thirdly, God has the wisdom of a physician. Therefore, there's a power to our hardships, a power in our hardships that changes and heals us. Let me show you why we need each one of these kinds of wisdom in our lives. First of all, the Bible teaches us here,

has the wisdom of a trainer. And therefore there's an order to our suffering and to our hardships.

In verse 11, it says,

all discipline, all troubles seem very painful for a while, but later on it produces a harvest of righteousness and peace for those who have been trained by it. And the great word there, the word trained, is the Greek word gymnasdo, from which we get our word gymnasium. You will not endure unless you see that the hardships that come into your life are a regimen. They have an order to them. They are exercises. The wisdom of God is the wisdom of a trainer. Now, what is the wisdom of a trainer? A trainer looks at you. A gym coach looks at you. Sizes you up. and brings into your life stress and pressure on your body that's adapted to your weaknesses.

A good gym coach, a good trainer will do that. A good trainer will look and see what they are and what is training. What does it mean to have a workout? What it means is your body is being taken beyond the comfort level. Your muscle doesn't want to do the things that the trainer wants your muscle to do. It's going to move you beyond the comfort level. So you're going to hurt. So you're going to sweat. So your heart's going to pound.

And he's going to do that. The trainer is going to do that. As a way of making you stronger. Not only that. The trainer is going to adapt your regimen. To you. The stresses. The problems. The kind of pressure he's going to put on your muscles. And on your respiratory system. And on your physical systems. Is going to be different. Than the one that the trainer is going to give to an Olympian. If you put the training regimen of an Olympian on you, you'll die. If you put your training regimen on the Olympian, the Olympian will probably not develop. Because every person's body needs something different. Why do we need that? Here's why we need that. The nature of the physical body is that if you only eat what you want to eat, And if you only exert your muscles as you want to exert them. If you're never pulled beyond your comfort, you deteriorate fast. There's almost a sense in which unless you run, unless you exert yourself, almost, unless you hurt yourself, just enough. Not too much and not too little. Unless you hurt your body, you hurt your body.

Unless you're pushing your body beyond comfort into discomfort, your body decays. Your body does not stay fit. Your body has to be continually pressured into fitness. Ah, but the wisdom of a gym coach is this. Too much pressure, one too many laps, five pounds too much to lift, and you've really hurt and harmed the body. But too little, too few laps, too little weight, and you've hurt the body as well. There's no way out of it. There's going to have to be pressure. There's going to have to be stress, or you deteriorate. And the wise coach gives it to you just like that. Now, how do we apply this? Unless you see God is in your life as a trainer, you're going to be in a lot of trouble. I can remember, though I can't remember where, some old sitcom that I saw. And this is basically the plot of the old sitcom. A person, I forget exactly who it was. It sure seems like an I Love Lucy kind of plot. But anyway, it went like this. It might have been Desi Arnaz. But anyway, somebody, some guy I think it was, orders somebody that he thinks is a personal secretary. But actually, the person who comes thinks that she's a personal trainer. trainer. So what happens is the very first thing in the morning, she walks on in, he's eating a croissant. He looks up and says, hi, and she grabs the croissant. None of that. Now, this isn't the way a secretary is supposed to act. You're supposed to say, can I get you something? Not, give me that. And of course, you know, for about five minutes, everything is very hilarious because she thinks she's in his life as a trainer. Somebody to get him into shape. And he thinks she's in his life to do her bidding. Now that's funny. And it's hilarious. And it's a farce. And it's actually a pretty good plot for a comedic sketch. The Bible says that almost everybody in this room is going through that every day. Because we think that God is in our life as our secretary. We may have asked him into our life as our secretary, but he has come into your life as your trainer. Why? Because he's God.

You see, when it doesn't seem like there's an order to your life, it doesn't mean that there is no order to your life. It's just not your order. And that's why things seem so chaotic.

Put it this way. One of the reasons why many of you are in a great deal of distress now is because you refuse to see the frustrations and the pressures and the stresses and the disappointments of your life as having an order to them, as being part of God's order, his training. John Newton, the great hymn writer, said he never had that much trouble when God would alter his life. He only had a lot of trouble when God would alter his day. He says, when God would, you know, my wife died, give that to the Lord. My job is gone. All right, I'll give that to the Lord. But when I get up and I decide this is what I want to do with my day and here and there and here and there, disappointments come on in, frustrations come in. This doesn't show up. He says, by the middle of the day, I am overturned spiritually. He says, I will not let God train me.

Now, if you understand that God's in your life as a trainer, what else can he be? God. What else can he be? The problems are not him. The problems are the fact that you don't realize who he's come to be and what he's come to do. And what your need is. You deteriorate without training. Spiritually as well as the body. You admit it to your body. You admit it physically. You won't admit it spiritually. You admit that if all you ever do physically, some of you have been, I've been doing it for at least a year, is never push the body. Never it. Never diet it. Never push it beyond its comfort zone. It just starts to go to seed. We admit that in the physical realm. What makes you think that God is being unfair, that God is not doing his job if he is frustrating you and taxing you? Listen, just like your body doesn't grow, your faith doesn't grow unless it's taxed. Your patience doesn't grow unless it's tested. Your compassion, your courage, your commitment doesn't grow unless it's challenged, unless it's threatened, just like your limbs don't strengthen unless they're pressed, unless they're resisted against. That's what weightlifting is. Find something to resist your muscles or they go to seed.

If you don't understand that God is your trainer, you're going to live a life full of self-pity and shock. understand this part of his wisdom. You will not be so shocked. You know, one half of the reasons that you're so upset very often about your trouble is because you're so shocked that it's happened. It's not just the problem, but you're surprised that the problem's happened. And therefore, you're not just dealing with the suffering, but you're dealing with your surprise about the suffering. Aesop Denison had, I can't remember where she wrote it. I read it somewhere. She had an amazing little tangential insight that I've never forgotten. She says, rich people and poor people, they're not crybabies, they understand suffering, it's middle class people that don't. She says, rich people know, they intrinsically know that being wealthy doesn't buy happiness. They realize that life is hard. Poor people of course know that life is hard but the middle class feel that because of their hard work, because of their efforts, because of their scheduling, because of their goal setting, somehow they're shocked when they find out that life is hard, life is disappointing, life is full of pain and death and decay. She says, middle class people are the only ones that are surprised by suffering, and as a result they have, well, haven't you read, there has never been a culture with a bigger middle class than the United States. That's not just true economically, but psychologically. and therefore there has never been a culture in which we have a lower pain threshold and suffering threshold than here where we pass out and start to cry. We cannot believe it's happening to us. We cannot believe it should be happening to us. It's completely unfair. Life has no meaning if there's any suffering in it at all. There can be no redemptive reason for it at all. How could God do this to me?

Are you crying because he grabbed your croissant this morning?

It's his job. Secondly God has the wisdom of a trainer Therefore there's an order To your hardships And you therefore must eschew The self pity and the surprise At suffering Secondly God has the wisdom of a father And therefore there's not just an order But there's a loving purpose To your suffering See we have to go beyond what we just said If you only understand the first part then all that does is make you a Stoic, not really a Christian. So if you just say, okay. I mean, I've had people who say, yeah, all right. Suffering's inevitable. I get it. I'm not going to be middle class anymore about the way in which I see this. Who wants to be middle class? I mean, nobody wants to be middle class. Anyway, who wants to be middle class about suffering? So the idea is, oh, yes, okay. I see that suffering is inevitable. I see that's just the way things are. I see that these things will come. That makes you a Stoic, not a Christian yet. And that won't be enough to really help you endure. That won't be enough to really help you to hyperstand. You also have to see that this one who's in your life is not just a trainer. Not just a drill sergeant. Give me that croissant. Get rid of that cigarette. Suck in that gut, mister. That's not what we have.

We've got a father. Oh, he's a trainer, but he's a father. Everywhere in this text, every single verse, the word discipline shows up. The word discipline is the word paideia, from which we get our word pediatrics. It's the word that means to raise a child. It means to nurture a child. It means to care for a child. Now, what does that mean? We saw what the job of a trainer is. Now, what's the job of a father? We're told what the job of the father is actually right down here in verse 10 and 11. It says, our fathers disciplined us for a little while as they thought best, but God disciplines us for our good that we may share in his holiness. There we have it. Now look, a parent looks at a child and says, you've got to share in my nature. Right now you're dependent. Right now you're foolish. Right now you can't make decent decisions. Right now you can't be independent or free. You don't have maturity. bring you into my nature? How do I get you to the place where you can be, you see, also an adult? How can I get you to share in my wholeness? A child's not whole. A child is in the dependent situation. You know, all the biologists say that of all the animals, there is no infant animal that's as helpless as the human animal. It's not in a whole condition. It's not able to stand on its own. It's not able to move on out. How do we get, how does the parent get the child to share in his holiness? Well, here's how a father does it. Through benign pain, carefully brought into our lives under controlled conditions to avoid greater pain later. My job as the father is to bring a controlled amount of benign, well-meaning pain out of love and desire to see my child grow, bring some small amounts of pain into his life now, so that he will avoid much greater pain later. That's my job. In other words, if my child lies, I know immediately that if that becomes a habit of the heart, that child will end up broken, institutionalized eventually, unable to deal If all he does is lie every time, there's a problem. So what do I have to do? I have to bring into his life a certain amount of pain now. Some deprivation. Go to your room. You can't go to the party. Something. And I have to do it so carefully because if it's too much, he'll be embittered. And if it's too little, he'll shrug it off. If it's too much, he'll take it lightly. I mean, pardon me, he'll faint and he'll be in despair. But if it's too little, he'll take it lightly and not learn a thing from it. oh, what wisdom it takes, and oh, what balance it takes. Did you see what I said the two parts of good fathering is? On the one hand, it's all there in verse 10. For the child's good. Because I love the child, because I want to see the child grow, number one. Number two, I bring in a certain amount of pain, just enough, not so much to harm him, but not so little as not to instruct him. That's how I have to act as a father. Now, interesting, the Hebrews writer says, our earthly fathers disciplined us for a while as they saw best, but God disciplines us that we might share in his holiness. That word but shows that all of us earthly parents fall so far short of real fathering. First of all, I don't always discipline my son for my good. I often do it for my good. In other words, sometimes I'm mad at him. Sometimes I want to pay him back. sometimes because he's caused me embarrassment because he's caused me discomfort and I'm saying yeah take that and I'm not disciplining him for his good and under those conditions I'm not exercising fatherly wisdom but secondly very often I make the mistake I go too high, too much, too harsh a discipline so he faints under it or so little that he takes it lightly but God is the perfect father. And that's the reason why the Hebrews writer says, my son do not make light of the Lord's discipline nor faint or lose heart when he rebukes you. The father's discipline, the heavenly father's discipline is perfect. And so he brings it on in and every single thing he does is whole. It's always for our good. It's never too much. It's Why do we need it? Same thing. Just as ridiculous as it is for you to believe that your body is going to be fine unless it's put under stress, so it's ridiculous, everybody knows that if there was ever a child who was raised and never had his or her will crossed, that child would be a wreck, that child would be actually neglected, abused by that kind of treatment. Imagine a child who always got what he or she wanted from the parents. And yet, you are demanding, everybody in this room demands, that the Father in Heaven treat us that way. That the Father in Heaven abuse you that way. That the Father in Heaven never cross your will. will. Now, what we have to realize is that we need, just as much as a child needs discipline, we need discipline. You say, what do you mean we need discipline? Here's why. You need discipline to show you who you are, and you need fatherly discipline to show you also what really matters in life. If you have not had hardship, if God would not bring those things into your life, you would never know those two things. First of all, you would never know who you are. Nobody, nobody knows their flaws by being told. They have to be shown. Now be careful here. It's an important distinction. Sometimes God allows hardship in your life that is the result of one of your character flaws. Sometimes. But always, this is telling us, God allows hardship in your life as a revelation of your character flaws. Can I show you why that's an important difference? See, sometimes, yeah, he'll let the consequences of your flaws catch up with you so you're awake to them so you finally see them. He might finally let your addiction bring down your job. He might finally let your bitterness get you into depression. He may finally let your overwork And in every case, what he's doing there is he's allowing the hardship to come as a result of your character flaw, to show you who you are. But you must be careful if you think that everything that happened to you that's bad is because God is punishing you for a specific sin, you're missing the point. Because many times he brings into your life hardship not as a result of your character flaw, but to reveal your flaw. So, for example, the average, around here, the average newlywed person says, I never knew until I got married, you know what you say, how selfish I was. Now, don't you see what God has done? God didn't look at you and say, because you're selfish, I'll punish you with a spouse.

Instead, God looked at you and said, because you're selfish, I will give you the spouse to reveal to you. The spouse is not a result of your selfishness. The spouse is the revelation of your selfishness. As a result, look at this difficult job. Look at this difficult marriage. Look at this difficult illness. They are not designed to bring you into confrontation with your boss, with your spouse, or with your body. They're brought to bring you into confrontation with yourself. With who you are. You have so much denial around you. You have so many levels of rationalization around you. You will never know the freedom of seeing who you are and what you really are good and bad at. And what your faults really are unless there's discipline. Unless there's hardship. And without hardship you'd never, ever, ever see who you are. And secondly, discipline is necessary to show you what's really worth living for, what really matters. I don't know how many times I've had people say, you know, the one thing that's come out of all this grief, all this brokenness, I finally see what's important. I finally see what's important. It can be a variety of things. Sometimes not until there's a breakdown in some area of your life do you realize that your family and your friends are the important things. And why did I forget that? I'll go a little further. Here's God and Satan talking in the book of Job. And Job, Satan says to God, God, you see Job down there? He seems like such a great religious servant of yours. He doesn't serve you. He's using you. He's not really living for you. He's living for all these great things that you've given him. Take away those great things and he'll curse you. And God allows those things to happen. Hardship comes into Job's life. And in the end, he comes up and he lands on his feet. But in the meantime, he begins to realize he was living for those other things. He thought he was living for God, but he was using God. He was making God a means to an end. He was using God as a ladder to get to his real goals. And as a result, he was a shallow and superficial person. And Job finds his entire life changed so that by the end, when the suffering is over, However, he has seen what's really worth living for. Friends, if you do not see that the things of this life will never satisfy an emptiness in your heart, if you do not see that there's something that you need in your soul that nothing on earth can satisfy, that's because you're either very young or you haven't had any hardship yet.

You're a superficial person. You don't know what things really matter. don't know what life is really about. Don't you see, as silly as it would be for a parent to say, oh, I don't think, I don't believe in crossing a child's will ever, how abusive that would be, how silly it is for you and me to relate to God as Heavenly Father, continually complaining that he's not doing what we want. Of course he's not. He's a father. How could he? How abusive of that would be. That's why John Newton says, everything is necessary that he sends. Nothing can be necessary that he withholds. Sometimes I wonder how anybody gets through life without memorizing that little saying. Everything is necessary that the Father sends. Nothing can be necessary that he withholds. Because he's a perfect Father. He's not like our earthly fathers. He's not like Tim Keller, who sometimes disciplines us for his good. He's not like Tim. He's not like you, oh fathers out there, often gives too much or too little in the way of suffering. Oh, no.

Now, if you believe, like we said, if you understand and grasp and apply the fact that God has the wisdom of a trainer, you should stop feeling sorry for yourself, full of surprise. Now, how do we apply this? If you understand that God's wisdom is the wisdom of a father, how do we apply that? Like this. It says, endure hardship as discipline. That means look at the problems of your life and receive them as if you are his children. Receive them as if. Think of them as from a father's hand. Discipline yourself to think of them as from your father's hand. How do you do that? Two ways. Number one, by the way, one of the reasons a lot of you are not able to endure right now, why you're not great hearts, one of the reasons why you're not able to face the troubles of your life without crumbling, is because you are not enduring hardship as child discipline, as fatherly care. First of all, if you want to receive everything that comes into your life is from the Father's hand, you need to remember that you're children, therefore you shouldn't expect to understand everything. Look at how children receive discipline. No matter how much and they never can understand. But there's a sense in which they know that they're children and they grumble a lot. You see, all children will always believe, always, always, always believe that the discipline from their father is too hard, unfair, and is taking too long. Always. There has never been a child that says, this is perfect, Dad, this is exactly right.

I think one hour in my room is just right. You see? I think to be grounded for three days is perfect. When does that ever happen? Never has. Even if it is the perfect discipline, he will never know that. You see, when it says endure fatherly discipline, endure hardship as fatherly discipline, the first thing you have to say is, I'm going to remember that I'm a child. That means, of course, I don't understand why he's doing this. Of course, this seems too harsh. Of course, this seems like too long. But if I have to get an explanation that I completely understand before I will trust him, I'm refusing to remember that I'm a child.

Endure hardship as discipline means remember that you're a child. But then secondly, endure hardship as discipline means remember that he's a father. It means you have to look at him and you have to say, I know that this is from your hand. I know this is not retribution. I know earthly fathers sometimes pay back, but you can't, because I have an elder brother who took the payment for all of my debts to you. That means you can never, ever, ever be just trying to pay me back for my sins, because that would be getting two payments. And therefore, I refuse to see anything that you're doing as vindictive, anything you're doing as condemning, anything you're doing as retribution and revenge. I know that everything that's coming here has instructional value. Everything that's coming here is out of love. Everything. Can you do that? Doesn't that take a discipline? Of course it does. What's the first thing you want to say when problems come into your life? You either want to say, God's unfair. That's forgetting the first part of receiving this as discipline. Or secondly, I must be completely a guilty, awful person. person. If you do either of those things, you will not hyperstand. You will not endure. If you either get angry at God, forgetting that you're a child and you can't understand, or if you get down on yourself, forgetting that he's a father and all of your sins have been forgiven, either way, you're decimating all of the instructional value of what's happening. You're wasting your sorrows. No. Well, you have to say, you know, it says here in verse 5, it says, and do not forget the word of encouragement that addresses you as sons. Read the Bible as a word to you as sons. Look at the place, 1 Corinthians 10.13, which says there's always a limit. God will never test you beyond your breaking point. Of course, all children think breaking point. Every one. But you know he won't. Or take a look at Romans 8.28. There's always a purpose in this. There's something good. He's trying to develop holiness in me. I don't know how or why, but he is. That's what it means to reason with yourself. Do you know how to argue with yourself from the Bible in love? Do you know how to take the words of love and the words of assurance that you are my beloved child and argue with your own heart until you can endure anything?

Okay, lastly, conclusion. We've seen that God has the wisdom of a trainer, so don't feel sorry for yourself. Don't be shocked at the fact that there's a regimen going on here. Your body needs it. Your soul needs it. Secondly, God also has the wisdom of a father, so there's a loving purpose to everything that happens to you, and you have to receive it as if you're a child and he's a father. But thirdly, thirdly, this is the last part, Your doctor, you've been in bed, and you've had your foot in a cast. And what happens, the doctor comes over to see you and says, today's the day. You've got to start walking on that foot. It says in verse 12, Therefore strengthen your feeble arms and weak knees. Make level paths for your feet so that the lame may not be disabled but rather healed. And what's the first thing that's going to happen? You're going to put your foot down. You're going to say, unbelievable. This hurts like crazy. You're a quack. Where did you get your medical degree? No way can I walk on this. The doctor sits and says, unless you start walking on it. it's going to hurt, but unless you start to actually use it, unless you do it, unless you walk on it, it's going to atrophy. You've got to do it. This is where all of the various metaphors merge. The way to handle suffering, we said, is not be surprised, is to remember you're a child, is to remember he's a father, but lastly, is to obey. You have to obey the father if you're a child. You have to obey the trainer if you're under his or her training. You have to obey your doctor, even though it hurts, because it hurts. You see, when you're doing your weightlifting, what you're actually doing is what you always do with your muscles, only under weight. And I want you to know that one of the things that I see people do constantly is when they get into suffering, they say, okay, because I'm suffering, I am now exempt from my duties. I don't have to be nice to people. I don't have to take care of people. I don't have to read my Bible. I don't have to pray. I don't have to worship. I don't have to obey the Ten Commandments because I'm suffering. Don't you see that the actual, it could be that the whole purpose for your suffering is simply for you to do what you always do, only under weight. Because you see, when you're swinging the bat with the weights on, You take the weight off, man, you have more control. When you're running with the weights on, and when you take them off, even though under the weight, it seemed like you were getting weaker. When you take the weights off, you find the weights were there to make you stronger. One of the great benefits of suffering, in fact, the main benefit of suffering is to get you to do what you ought to do. It's just to obey. Just do the commandments. Be a servant and a friend. Worship and be a Christian under the weight.

and if you think that I don't have to until the suffering is over you have actually lost all the benefits you've got to walk on it even though it hurts you've got to lift it even though it's under weight you've got to obey your father even though it doesn't seem to make much sense an ounce of sin will kill you more than 300 tons of suffering as a matter of fact 300 tons of suffering, if you obey, will do nothing but lead you to share in the holiness of your Father.

Conclusion? Yeah, conclusion.

If there's anybody here that says, you know, I don't know that I'm a son or daughter of God. I'm not really sure that I'm born again, or I'm not really sure that I know these things that you're telling me. Great. I'm glad you're realizing that. I hope that you see from the inside today the philosophy that a Christian can have in understanding this crazy world around. Do you have a better way of dealing? Do you have a better way to develop endurance? What's your philosophy? How do you understand the universe so that you're going to be able to deal with the suffering and hardship that's inevitable in your life that's better than this? There isn't a better one. There's no other religion that I know. know, there's a philosophy that I know that has this amazing approach to the hardship, this ability to create endurance. Has it done it? Of course. History shows Christians dying with a smile on their face, dying as the lions come, dying, you know, under stress, singing hymns. How could they endure that kind of hardship? Because they understood the wisdom of God as a trainer, as a father, as a physician, that the world was no longer a scary or terrible place. endurance? You have to know that you're a son or a daughter. And it says in John 1, 12,

as many as received him who believed on his name, he gave authority to become children of God. You receive Christ as Savior, that gives you the authority of children. And one of the aspects of that authority is this ability to handle life this way. In other words, as this very passage says, if you want to be able to handle life this way, look at Jesus, the author and perfecter of our faith. Consider him. Here he is on the cross. Look at him. You wonder how in the world, as a middle-class American, can God bring any good out of suffering? Look at the cross. Why? He broke all the evil of the universe through suffering. He can redeem through suffering. He does redeem through Look at Jesus, looking at you and saying, I gave up my glory in my suffering. All I'm asking you is to give up your idols and yours. In my suffering, I was cut off from the Father. In your suffering, I'm just trying to bring it closer. In my suffering, I look to you. In your suffering, just look to me.

If you understand that he died for you on the cross, if you take him into your heart as that, if you trust in him as Savior, as that,

you will be able to face anything. Isn't that what you need? Isn't that what you want? That's why George Herbert puts it perfectly. You know what it means to be a Christian, he says? I live to show his power, who once did bring, first my joys to weep, but now my griefs to sing. Let's pray. Our Father, I ask that you would enable everyone here to get wise, to get the wisdom that comes from knowing wisdom and seeing it surrounding us. Help us to know you as trainer and as physician, but especially as father, through Jesus Christ, our elder brother, who died and suffered for us, as a model for us, as our savior and as our Lord. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.
