Acts chapter 2, verses 1 to 13. When the day of Pentecost came, they were all together in one place. Suddenly a sound, like the blowing of a violent wind, came from heaven and filled the whole house where they were sitting. They saw what seemed to be tongues of fire that separated and came to rest on each of them. All of them were filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak in other tongues as the Spirit enabled them. Now there were staying in Jerusalem God-fearing Jews from every nation under heaven, and when they heard this sound, a crowd came together in bewilderment because each one heard them speaking in his own language. Utterly amazed, they asked, are not all these men who are speaking Galileans? Then how is it that each of us hears them in his own native language? Parthians, Medes, and Elamites, residents of Mesopotamia, Judea and Cappadocia,

This is God's Word. Excuse me. this week in New York Times there was published an interview with Tim Allen, the actor and it said that he had recently redefined show business success because in a 12 month period he started a number one TV show he started a number one movie and he wrote a number one best selling book and yet he said to the interviewer that recently he had read the Time Magazine cover article And when he read it, he said, that's me. He says, I feel my tank is empty. He says, it's the most successful and creative time of my life, and I feel my tank is half empty. And the reporter just laughed at it, essentially, and wrote it off and said, sure. I mean, you can read it. The reporter said, most people would see a tank running over with high-octane fame, money, and celebrity. That's what the reporter said. But Tim Allen said, I have been spent. I don't have, I'll never get back. He said, what I spent to get to the top. Now, we're looking at the book of Acts, and in the book of Acts, we're looking at a blatant historical fact, a sheer historical fact, which is that a small band of ignorant, uneducated men and women from marginal class in a marginal people group in the Roman Empire within two centuries came on top, became the most powerful force in that Roman Empire. And you ask, how did that happen? they weren't emptied by their rise. They were fulfilled. They fulfilled. Read the Book of Acts and you'll see that some kind of power came from outside of them. They didn't reach inside and spend themselves. They received something. They fulfilled with a transcendent energy. And you can read the whole Book of Acts and you'll see them burning but not burning out, a flame, but not flaming out. What was it? What were they filled with? And of course, the passage tells us the Spirit of God, Pentecost. Now, what is the Spirit of God? How are we filled with it? What is this transcendent energy? And what we learn from the passage will be learned by asking ourselves this question. What was Pentecost already on the day that God sent the Spirit of Christ down onto those men and women? You see, verse 1 says, the day of Pentecost came. There already was a Pentecost. The day that the Spirit of God descended and filled these men and women, was already a special day. Why? What was Pentecost already? Why did God send the Spirit down on that day? And that'll answer the question, which is, what is this? What is this fullness of the Spirit? How did it happen? What does it mean? Now, there was actually two ways in which the Jews celebrated Pentecost. On the day that this happened, it was already being celebrated, actually had two meanings. The original meaning of Pentecost was that it was the Feast of the First Fruits. Israel was an agrarian society, and so when the harvest would first start coming in,

the first fruits of the orchard, the first fruits of the harvest were brought and they were eaten as thanksgiving to the God of the harvest. And of course, there's many...most agrarian similar kind of feast. It was the Feast of the First Fruits. It was a way of thanking God for the harvest that was coming in. But usually the harvest happened about 50 days. The First Fruits happened 50 days after Passover, and that's where you get the word Pentecost. It's from our Greek and our Latin word for 50 or 5. And 50 days after Passover was when they were celebrating the harvest, and the Jews came to recognize that it was about that period of time Fifty days after Passover was the day that God came down on Mount Sinai and met with Moses face to face and gave the law and created the new people of God, created Israel, made them, constituted them a people of God. And as a result, the Jews on Pentecost celebrated God coming down and meeting Moses face to face and giving of the law.

What did it mean for God to send down the Spirit on that day? What does it teach us about the Spirit of God. What does it teach us about the meaning of it and how to fulfilled? This is what it teaches. When The Spirit of God fulfilled you, you are brought into The presence of three things. When The Spirit fulfilled you, here's how you know it. Here's how it happened. You are brought into The presence of The future. You are brought into The presence of The Lord. The presence of The nations. The presence of The future. The presence of The Lord. The presence of The nations. First, the presence of the future. What do we mean? Let me just put it to you this way, and I'm going to...I will not apologize for using a theological term. I'm trying to get your attention. I'm trying to show you the concept is so utterly unique it bears the coining of a word. The Spirit of God is eschatological.

The word eschaton is the Greek word for the last, the end.

What is the first fruits? The harvest, the feast of first fruits, is when you taste something that's to come. It's when you get a small experience of what's going to happen later. They say because we've had such an incredibly dry late August,

that the apples that come in this year are going to be small but very sweet. It'll be really great for making pies and applesauce and so on. That's what I'm told. So how will we know? Well, when the first apples start to come in, we'll taste. And if they're small and sweet, we know that this is what is to come. We have a smaller experience of something which is to come. What was God saying by sending the Spirit of God down on the Feast of First Fruits? In Romans chapter 8, Paul talks about the fact that right now everything in this world is subject to decay. He says we groan right now. We groan. Why? Everything is subject to decay. Everything's falling apart. This is advanced physics, by the way, for St. Paul to have known. Now we know through the Big Bang understanding that the universe is running down. Well, I don't know. I don't think it's that bad. Is it that bad?

We'll find out. The universe is running down. There was an enormous expenditure of energy in the beginning of the creation of the universe. But now, it's running down. Everything is falling apart. Every day, the universe and everything in the universe expends more energy than it creates. And so, it's running down. It'll run out. Everything is going to more and more disorder. And that includes you and me. Some of you look great. You will not be able to hold on to that. going to fall apart. Some of you feel great. You will not be able to hold on to that. You're going to fall apart. Some of you are part of great families. Families break up, sometimes through sin and foolishness and bad relationships, but eventually people die. You had a wonderful home. You try to go home. You can't go home. It's never the way it was. Everything's falling apart, part, Paul says. Everything is subject to decay. But, he says, someday there will be a glory that comes down from the throne room of God. Someday the air of heaven will come down and everything will become glorious. It will fall into us who believe, he says, and it will envelop the universe. So, the whole universe will be liberated from the bondage to decay, liberated from its bondage to disintegration and decomposition. That is the glory of God coming from His throne room and it's going to glorify everything. And then he has the audacity to say in chapter 8, verse 23, we know this because we have the first fruits of the Spirit. Now, you know what the claim is? Let's just look at it and move on because it's just too vast to spend time on, really. Here's what the claim is. The Spirit of God that comes down into the Christian when you believe, the Spirit of God that fills you in the ways we're talking about now, that's the presence of the future. That is the first installment of the glory of heaven. It is a slice, only a slice, but a real slice of ultimate reality. It is a taste, only a taste, but a real taste of the life and the power and the joy of heaven itself. Down it comes. Well, what's it going to be like in heaven. In heaven, we'll see him face to face. If you have the Spirit of God, you are capable of experiences of his presence that you're not even seeking. In heaven, we'll be like him. And those of us who have the Spirit of God have got a capacity for likeness to him, for self-control, for wisdom, for grace, for compassion, for strength, far beyond what we're really seeking. Don't you know what Paul's saying here in chapter 8? Remember the place where, you know, Ma and Pa Kent at some point had to sit down with little Clark Kent and say, let me tell you something about who you really are. Let me tell you what kind of powers you've got. And this is Paul coming to you and me as Christians and saying, little Clarks, do you know what you've got?

The Spirit is eschatological. The Spirit is the presence, the very presence of the future. But don't forget this. It's the first fruits. First fruits. Keep that together. First fruits. fruits. Why do we have to talk like that? Here's why we talk like that. On the one hand, you have to remember that we have the first fruits of Heaven itself which means we have inside our church and we have inside ourselves power to stem the tide of decay. We believe because we have the first fruits of Heaven that we have gifts of the Spirit to overcome spiritual and psychological and social breakdown.

And so we should give up our small ambitions and have tremendous hope for ministry. But on the other hand, it's only the firstfruits. And if you forget that they're the firstfruits, if Christians forget that we only have a taste, we only have a slice, that's just as lethal. When Christians start to believe that God can't really work in my life, that's lethal. But when Christians think that every time they get an impression that's God speaking to me, that's lethal too. You're still a sinner. You might be making a mistake. On the one hand, if we forget that we really can, with the Spirit of God, address the deepest spiritual, psychological, and social issues, if you forget that, that's lethal. But if on the other hand you believe it happens like that, if you believe in pat answers, if you start to teach that if you have faith today, all your problems go away instead of seeing it could be a process, that's lethal too. It's the first fruits. It's very hard to keep that combination of both confidence and humility together, but only if you see it's the first fruits. We need to be able to talk like John Newton, who said at one point, I am not what I ought to be. I am not what I hope to be, but I'm not what I used to be. And by the grace of God, I am what I am. There it is, Pentecost. The Spirit is the presence of the future. But secondly, the Spirit is the presence of the Lord. In verse 2 and 3, what does it tell you about? Wind and fire.

Everywhere in the Old Testament that God actually shows up, every time His presence appears, you've got wind and fire. When God appears to Job, He appears in a whirlwind. to Abraham. He appears as a burning torch, you know, passing between the pieces of the animal in Genesis 15. And at the first Pentecost, when God came down on Mount Sinai, He came down in a windstorm and in fire. The wind and fire. You see, this is the next Pentecost. This is what happened at Mount Sinai, but as we're going to see, it happened again, but in a much more profound way. This is God, His living presence coming down to touch you. Now, this tells us that an experience of the transcendent is important and is possible. I recently was looking through a book that's been on the bestseller list for a long time by Karen Armstrong called A History of God. And I must tell you right off the bat, in no way do I recommend her point of view about, oh, about 90% of what she says, I guess. She's very unhappy with Christianity for many good reasons, but for a lot of specious reasons as well. But here's what's so critical, and what she says is very important for me to say here. She says, you know, the architects of modern thought like Marx and Freud and Nietzsche, they taught that we were going to get over religion. They taught that modern human beings were going to get over religion. You know, what they taught was this. this. They said, you know, it used to be, back when you couldn't understand natural forces, that human beings needed to create this idea of the religious, of the supernatural, because it was the only way to deal with reality. We had to say, oh, there's the wind god, and there's the fire god, and there's the sea god, because we didn't understand natural forces, but now we have science. Now we're coming of age. And as we get educated and as we understand things scientifically, we will, human beings will shed their need for religion. And I know that in this city, for example, about 50 years ago or 60 years ago, back in the 10, 1910, 1920, 1930, an awful lot of the churches of this city got ready. They believed what Marx and Freud and Nietzsche said. They believed that modern people were going to get rid of religion, that religion was sort of a neurosis for immature people who couldn't handle life and who weren't educated and who didn't understand science. So, they stripped Christian religion of the transcendent. The transcendent, a reality beyond the natural. They got rid of the idea of miracles. We can't believe now. We're Christians. Yes, but we don't believe in miracles. We don't believe in a literal physical resurrection. We don't believe the Bible is literally revelation God's truth. We don't believe that you have to be born again. We have to get rid of these ideas. Why? Because we have to be relevant for modern people. Well, Karen Armstrong points out that there is nothing less relevant for people today than a church that doesn't offer transcendent experience of God because, as she pointed out, these guys who taught that we were going to get over this have been proved utterly wrong in the most technologically advanced countries of the world. There is a hunger for the transcendent experience. And in fact, Karen Armstrong goes so far as to say, you know what? We were wrong. without religion. She even says there, and I love this, she says, if there is no God, then nothing, everything is relative. There's no right or wrong, and you can't even tell anybody what they should be doing. And she said also, if it's true that we have this indelible desire for experience of the transcendent, if it's really an indelible passion and yearning of the human heart, why would it be the only appetite we've got that has no basis in reality. We need the transcendent. And you know what? This tells us you can have the transcendent, but how? Wind and fire, yes, but how does it come?

Being filled with the Spirit of God is not being filled with some kind of electricity. Being filled with the Spirit of God is not being filled with some kind of abstract or naked power. Because when these men and women get the transcendent, when they are filled with the Spirit, they start to talk. And what are they going to talk about? They're going to talk about the things that they've seen. They're going to talk about what the Spirit has shown them. They're going to talk about what that experience really consists of. And what do they talk about? It tells you, but you have to read all the way through the passage. Did you see it? They're not talking about how finally I have peace and joy in my life. They're not talking about how finally I have healing for my blind left eye. They're not talking about how finally I've got power to overcome my problems. They're not talking about power. They're not talking about gifts. What are they talking about? Do you see it? What can't they get over?

They're declaring the wonders of God. God. Being filled with the Spirit is not just getting some kind of electrical shock. Being filled with the Spirit is having God give you truth about Himself. It's having an experience of truth. Christianity is neither rationalism nor mysticism. It is far too...it's very rational and incredibly mystical. But you see, it's far too rational for mysticism and far too mystical for rationalism. Here's why. Christianity is a deep experience of a rationally held truth. When we ever see people filled with a spirit, they're not getting some kind of just, they're not just getting zapped. God comes and declares His name. What happened at the first Pentecost? When He came down on Mount Sinai, what did He come down to? Just for special effects? For the earthquake? For the tremor? What was it? He says, I come to declare my name. And when Moses, at the first Pentecost, comes to God, what does he ask for? It amazed me that some of you know that about a month ago in our evening service, we looked at Exodus 33. That is the thing that Pentecost looks back to. This Pentecost looks back to that. God descends on the mountain. Moses comes and says what? Show me your glory. Now, what's he asking for? He's us, like most of us when we first come to Christianity. We want the good stuff. You know, we want to feel good. We want to feel above everything. He says, show me your glory. And so God says, okay, I will let my goodness pass before you. Now, what? See, for God to give you an experience of his glory. He has to show you who he is. But here's what he says. He says to Moses, I will let all my goodness pass before you. You know why you haven't experienced my glory? You know why you've never been filled with the Spirit? You've never seen all my goodness. And when he goes to show Moses his goodness, he says, you can't see my goodness frontally. I won't be able to show you my full glory. I'll put you in the cleft of the rock, rock, and I'll shelter you with my hand. If you saw the whole thing, it would kill you. So, I put you into the cleft of the rock, shelters him so he can only see the back part of his glory, and then we're told in Exodus 34 that he did pass by, and this is what he said to Moses. It says, Exodus 34, verse 6, and he passed in front of Moses proclaiming, the Lord, the Lord, the compassionate and gracious God, slow to anger, abounding in love and faithfulness, maintaining love to thousands and forgiving wickedness, rebellion, and sin. Yet, he by no means clears the guilty, for he punishes the children and their children's children for the sins of the fathers to the third and fourth generations. I am the Lord.

God, see, Moses said, I want an experience of power. I want the transcendent power. I want the glory. God comes and says, the only way for me to do that is to tell you who I am. him. And the only way to do that is to show you all my goodness. He says, I'll tell you about my goodness. So he puts him in the cleft of the rock and then he says this, and any thoughtful person who hears what he just said will say, wait a minute. On the one hand, he says, I am the Lord who is slow to anger, gracious and compassionate, abounding in love and faithfulness, maintaining love to thousands and forgiving wickedness, rebellion and sin. sin. Yet, I by no means clear the guilty, and I punish the children and their children's children for the sins of the fathers of the third and fourth generation. And you hear that, and any thoughtful person is going to say, that's the stupidest thing I ever heard. First of all, he says, I forgive people. I love to forgive people. I seek to maintain goodness to people who have been wicked. And then he says, but I will by no means clear the guilty. I will not let any debt go unpaid. Now look what's happening. He is declaring all of his goodness. You see, why is it that he cannot clear the guilty? Why can he say, I will never, I will never just overlook a sin? You know why he says that? He's so good. Yeah, if you had a judge who found that a particular criminal was guilty, but if that judge winks at sin, if that judge sort of lets the person go free, you say that judge isn't good. And so that's the reason why God says, I can't clear the guilty. But also, why does God, on the other hand, say, I love people. I don't want anyone to die. I don't want anyone to perish. Why does He say that? Because He's good. Well, somebody says, well, he's just going to have to choose. Because listen, either he will have to act on his justice goodness and then just, you know, not express his love goodness, or he'll have to act on his love goodness and not express his justice goodness. But he can't be all good. He can't be. He just can't do it. And that's how anybody feels if the Spirit of God has never come and fulfilled you if the Spirit of God has never come and declared His name to you. You see, this is where all of our problems come from. Conservative people basically say, yeah, God's loving, but essentially He's a judge. He will punish you. If you try to be a good person, if you live a good life, you'll be okay. He's only half good. Goodness, justice. And the liberal person says, well, you know, you have to decide these things for yourself. Everybody has to decide what is right for them. And a God, if there is a God, loves everybody. See, love goodness, He's half good or He's half good, and you just have to choose. But when the Spirit of God descends upon you, listen, there's religious people who are conservative and they see He's half good. That's goodness justice. But they don't get excited about it. They're not filled. They're not declaring the wonders of God. They're not saying how incredible. They're saying, God will get you if you don't do the right thing. So come to church and keep your nose clean. And then the liberal people, they may believe in God. They may be religious, but they're not filled. They're saying, well, of course, God loves everybody. God just accepts everybody. But they're not filled. But when the Spirit of God comes to you, you see all the goodness of God for the first time. When the Spirit of God comes to you, the Spirit shows you Jesus. And suddenly you say, wait a minute. The cross. not just as example, not just as hero, not just as helper, Jesus as Savior on the cross. When the cross, when God punished Jesus on the cross at one time, fully and absolutely, His goodness, justice, and His goodness, love were absolutely satisfied, and only there, only there, and until that hits you, the Spirit of God has not shown you. You have not met the a real God. You've not had an experience of the transcendent and real God. If there's anybody here who says, well, I don't believe in a God who punishes people like that, you have a right to that belief. But you know what? I have to tell you, you've never been filled with the Spirit. The Spirit always shows you all the goodness of God. And this isn't just how you become a Christian. The Spirit, first of all, comes upon you and shows you all the goodness of God. Being a Christian is not just ascribing to a body of beliefs. The Spirit shows you all the goodness. You say, oh my word, I am lost, but not by my works, but by the death of Jesus Christ, I can be accepted. When that hits you, when that strikes you, when you see all the goodness, and only then has the Spirit of God filled you. But you know what, Christian friends? You say, well, I guess that's how you become a Christian. Yes, but that's how you grow as a Christian. Don't you know? Look carefully at your life. Are you drooping? Are you anxious? Are you guilty? Are you slipping into things you know are wrong? I tell you it's because you've only got half of a good God. You're either remembering the holiness so you're feeling, but not his love, and you're feeling kind of anxious all the time. You're remembering his love, but not his holiness, so you're starting to have no, you're having no self-control. You have to say, Spirit of the living God, pass by me and show me all the goodness of God. and not until then will you be filled, because you see, it's only when you see that you really behold him, because you know what? When God showed this to Moses, that's why Moses only saw the back parts, because God showed Moses the dazzling truth that he's all good, and Moses said, he's all good. That's incredible. How could he do it? How can you do it? You either have to be good just or you have to be good loving. But God showed Moses only the back parts, but we see face to face. The fire came down on the mountain. It came down near Moses, but it comes down in us. It comes down on us. Why? Because the thing that God said, Moses, you can't handle, what we're told in the book of John, the word became flesh and dwelled among us, and we beheld his glory. Glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace, and truth.

Now lastly, if you have an experience like this, you are not just brought into the presence of God for peace, love and groovy vibes. And one of the ways where you can judge whether a real revival and renewal of the Holy Spirit is happening in a Christian community is not just that people are declaring the wonders of God, but it changes the relationships to the broken human community. The last...it doesn't just bring you into the presence of the future and the presence of the Lord, it brings you into the presence of the nations. You see this long...most of this passage gives you this long table of the nations. Look at all the different...why? Why in the world would St. Luke, the writer of this passage, make such a long list? It's unnecessary. My wife, you know, says I'm very verbose. Whenever she edits my stuff. She says, you know, omit needless words, omit needless words. You know, just two or three, you don't need 20. Why did Luke do it though? Not one of these things was needless. Here's why. The last time you see the tables of the nation is in Genesis 10. We're told about all the nations of the earth. And then in Genesis 11, we're told about the Tower of Babel, that the people of the earth decided to be their own masters and make a name for themselves. And as a result, their tongues were confused. God came down, we're told, on the Tower of Babel to confuse their tongues, which was a way of showing us that when you decide to justify yourself and be your own Lord and Savior, the result is racial and cultural superiority and imperialism, racial and cultural hostility, and a destruction of human community. and we're told in Acts chapter 2 that when God came down on Mount Sinai, he created a new people. Well, when God came down and showed us face to face all of his goodness, as Paul says, gave us the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ, the first thing that happens is the barriers between cultures come down. The first worship service and the first sermon was preached in what language? The first worship service and the first sermon was preached in what culture? All of them. Why? When God came down, He reversed the curse of Babel, and He shows that when you believe you're saved by not your own goodness, but by God's goodness, it demotes and relativizes your nationalism and your racism. It puts your national and racial identity, it doesn't get rid of it, but it demotes it. And now the most important The important thing about you is the Cross. And you look across to a brother and sister who also has the Cross on his or her heart and that they are a different culture and they are a different race. Somebody who before your Christianity you might not even wanted to be near. Now you know, I've got more on come with that person than someone from my own culture who doesn't understand this truth. The way you know that a revival has hit is that people get along who could never get along anywhere else. The way you know that the Spirit of God has come down on you is not that you now just of wonderful feelings, but that you change your whole attitude toward your money, toward yourself, toward your identity, toward your culture, and you are sent out into the world in humble service to people who before you never would have had anything to do with. There's social healing. Why? It's the presence of the future. The decay that sin brings is reversed. Is this happening here? Does this happen to you? Can you see your prejudices coming down? on? The Spirit of God brings us into the presence of the future. It brings us into the presence of God. It brings us into the presence of the nations. When we go to the table now, what we're saying is, Lord Jesus Christ,

Holy Spirit, let all the goodness of God pass before me, because that is what you need here. Are you worried? Are you angry? Are you bitter? Are you unhappy? Are you bored? Do you know what you need to see all the goodness of God. You've only got half. Figure out which half is missing. Figure it out right now. And say, show it to me all. Fill me with your Spirit that I might declare the wonders of God to myself and to the world. Let's pray. Father, give us now your presence.

That's enough. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.
