Tonight's scripture can be found on page 8 of your bulletin, and it comes from the book of James, chapter 3, verses 1 through 18.

Not many of you should presume to be teachers, my brothers, because you know that we who teach will be judged more strictly. We all stumble in many ways. If anyone is never at fault in what he says, he is a perfect man, able to keep his whole body in check. When we put bits into the mouths of horses to make them obey us, we can turn the whole animal. Or take ships as an example. Although they are so large and are driven by strong winds, they are steered by a very small rudder wherever the pilot wants to go. Likewise, the tongue is a small part of the body, but it makes great boasts. Consider what a great forest is set on fire by a small spark. The tongue also is a fire. A world of evil among the parts of the body. It corrupts the whole person, sets the whole course of his life on fire, and is itself set on fire by hell. All kinds of animals, birds, reptiles, and creatures of the sea are being tamed and have been tamed by man. But no man can tame the tongue. It is a restless evil, full of deadly poison. With the tongue, we praise our Lord and Father. And with it, we curse men who have been made in God's likeness. Out of the same mouth come praise and cursing. My brothers, this should not be. Can both fresh water and salt water flow from the same spring? My brothers, can a fig tree bear olives? Or a grapevine bear figs? Neither can a salt spring produce fresh water. Who is wise and understanding among you? Let him show it by his good life. By deeds done in the humility that comes from wisdom. For if you harbor bitter envy and selfish ambition in your hearts, do not boast about it or deny the truth. Such wisdom does not come down from heaven, but is earthly and spiritual of the devil. For where you have envy and selfish ambition, there you find disorder and every evil practice. But the wisdom that comes from heaven is, first of all, pure. Then peace-loving, considerate, submissive, full of mercy and good fruit, impartial and sincere. Peacemakers who sow in peace raise a harvest of righteousness. This is the word of the Lord.

The book of James is a practical book. It says if you believe the gospel, this is how your life should look practically. This is what your community will look like practically. And tonight in chapter 3, get to the subject of how belief in the gospel affects your speech, your words, your tongue. Have you ever noticed, by the way, that you go to a doctor for a checkup, the doctor looks to see what's on your tongue to tell what's going on deep inside? And actually that's what this chapter's about. Look at what's on your tongue and you'll learn an awful lot about your soul and your heart. Now there's three things I'd like to show you that the text tells us about words. There's more than that, but there's three things we're going to deal with tonight. And that is, it tells us about the power of words. Then secondly, about how poisonous our words can be. And then thirdly, some ideas on how to heal the poisonousness of our words. The power of words, the poison of words, and the healing of the poison. So, first, the power of words. Verses 1 to 5 are all about how powerful words are. Verse 1 says that teachers will be judged more harshly. Well, what's that got to do with the subject? Everything. It's saying the more words you use, the more severely you'll be judged. And that shows that God takes words very, very seriously. Why does Jesus say in Matthew 12, this amazing statement, which still makes me tremble, but I tell you that men will have to give an account on the day of judgment for every careless, every careless word they have spoken.

Every careless word. Why? You know, Proverbs 12, pardon me, Proverbs 18, verse 21 says, life and death are in the power of the tongue. Life and death are in the power of the tongue. And look at these three metaphors at the beginning of the chapter. A little bit in the mouth of the horse turns the whole horse. A little rudder turns the whole big, huge ship. A little spark can start a forest fire that destroys thousands of lives and millions of acres. What are all these metaphors getting across? The power of your speech. The power of your words. Your words are much more powerful than you think. Why? When you go back to the beginning of the book of Genesis, the very first page, it tells you. That's the first place we see anything about talking or speaking in the Bible. Where is it? What is it? And God said, let there be. Light. And there was light. God is a speaking God and his words create reality. And even though we're human beings, we're not God.

Yet, our words have the ability to create reality. Our words are much more powerful because we're made in the image of God. We're more powerful than we think. So, for example, what is a self-image made out of? I mean, a self-image, your regard of yourself completely shapes. Though. The course of your life. But you know where your self-image comes from? Words. Your self-image is the accumulation of all the verdicts, the things that have been said about you by parents and teachers and friends over the years. If you say to a child, you're stupid and you're close to that child in some way as an adult, that word goes into that child and affects that child. It's like toxic chemicals underneath the soil. And it affects the child for years and years. And you know that. Because a lot of you are dealing with that.

See, words make or break the self-image. The self-image is created by the words. Your word has power. Or also, words make or break community. Community. Let's go top level. If you can't trust the words of your government or the words of a news media or the words of a business, you have complete breakdown. You have complete economic, social breakdown. If you want to see an example of that where nobody could trust the words of anybody else, you want to see an example of that up close, go rent the movie The Lives of Others about the last days of East Germany under communism where nobody trusted anybody else because their words meant nothing. And words mean nothing. If you can't trust the words, there is no society. There is no community. Because community is made out of words. Let's go small bore. If you have a relationship and you lie to that person, the person doesn't know yet, but you know there's a distance barrier. You've got to watch out what you say now. You've got to be careful that you don't let the person see what you... There's a barrier between you. Marriages are made...

Words make or break a marriage. And you know what? You know why? Because words have a power that is irretrievable once you say it. Words have a power. If you take a sword and stick a sword into somebody's flesh and then pull it out and say, I'm sorry. Guess what? The sword's out, but the wound's not gone. And if you make cutting remarks to your spouse and then say, I'm sorry, guess what? The harm's not gone. Because words have a power. The proverb says, life and death are in the power of the tongue. Do you know how many murders, suicides, and wars have been caused by careless words? Careless words. Jesus wasn't exaggerating. Judgment Day's already started on your careless words. You know that.

And this is the reason. Let's wrap up this first point. This power of the words. This is the reason why you'll never see anywhere in the Bible, no author in the Bible will ever say anything like this. Sticks and stones can break my bones, but words can never hurt me. You know, one of the most ironic things is whenever I hear a child sing that song, the irony, of course, is you know that child's life is completely dominated by the words that we're saying to the child. That's stupid to say sticks and stones may break my bones, but words can never hurt me. That's crazy. Because, frankly, here's what the Bible teaches. Sticks and stones may break your bones, but words can go places sticks and stones could never go. Right into your soul, right into your self-regard, right into the center of your relationships. And it can destroy by creating, terrible new realities.

Somebody commenting on what the Bible says about words says this. What is done to you is a very little account compared to what is done in you. Words can destroy confidence, morale, relationships, marriages, and families in a way sticks and stones can't. They cause murders. Words cause murders and suicides and wars by the score. Even a single word can do this. Words are sparks. They are bombs. So, power of words. However, it's not all words, obviously, that are bad. Some words are what, you know, here in verse 8, James calls poisonous. See, he says the tongue is a restless evil full of deadly poison. Well, what kind of words are poisonous? It says life and death are in the power of the tongue, says Proverbs. So, tongue, you know, the tongue can kill. It can poison, but it can also give life. So, what kinds of words are poisonous words? What kinds of words bring about this destruction? And here, you're not going to find the answer in the chapter. Chapter 3 is where James talks about words and speech at greatest length, but he doesn't actually mention what kinds of words are the poisonous words. You have to go back a little bit and go to chapter 5. Now, we're going through the book of James pretty quickly, and so when we get to chapter 5, you're not going to hear me talking about these two places. But in chapter 5, you're going to hear me talking about these two places. In chapter 5, verse 12, and in chapter 5, verse 9, James lays out the two basic categories of poisonous words that there are. Here's what the two basic categories of poisonous words are. Words are poisonous. They destroy. They bring death if they're untruthful or unloving. Now, let's just take, you know, just a couple minutes to talk about that. Untruthful or unloving. Untruthful, unloving words are poison. Now, actually, it's in James chapter 5, verse 12 that he talks about. It's absolutely critical to tell the truth. He actually quotes his older brother, Jesus. Remember, James is the younger brother of Jesus Christ. He's the son of Joseph and Mary. And James in chapter 5, verse 12 says, Don't swear, but let your yes be yes and let your no be no. And that's quoting Jesus from the Sermon on the Mount. Because Jesus says, Don't swear by heaven or earth or by Jerusalem, but let your yes be yes and no be no. What is that? Here's what he's saying. You know how people say, well, when you go into court and you swear on the stack of Bibles, I promise to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help me God. Now we've got to tell the truth. And you know what Jesus is saying? If you're a Christian, you're always under oath. Everywhere you go, everybody you talk to, you should be, every yes, every no ought to be as truthful as if you'd just sworn on a stack of Bibles. You shouldn't need to ever go under oath in order to tell the truth. You're always under oath. That's James 5, 12. Then James 5, 9, he says, Don't grumble against each other. And the word grumble, by the way, simply means to roll the eyes as you speak.

Oh, my gosh. New York City. Now, listen. Let me not take long. I'm not going to go long on this, but just to say, this summarizes everything. Those two verses in chapter 5 summarize everything the Bible says about poisonous words. Poisonous words are untruthful and unloving. Or Paul puts it positively in Ephesians 4, 15, when he says, Speak the truth in love. Meditate with me for a second. Unless you're speaking the truth in love, unless your words are characterized by love, by truthfulness and love at the same time, your words are poison. You're destroying people. Now, think about this with me. First of all, truth. What's wrong with telling a lie? Why is untruthful words, why are they wrong? One Christian writer put it like this. There are lies of gossip that make haters out of us. There are lies of advertising that make money out of us. There are lies of politicians that make pawns, pawns out of us. Lies always demean, always disempower, always distort people's view of reality so they cannot live wisely. Do you hear that? When you lie, you're creating a reality for that person, but it's not real reality. You're not giving them the facts about things. You're holding back something that they need to know, some information that they need to know, so that they're flying blind. So whenever you lie, you're exploiting people. You're making haters. You're making puns out of them. You're making pawns out of them. You're making money out of them or whatever.

And so lies, of course, an untruthful tongue, create an illusion around people and disempower them, right? That's bad, right? But guess what? There's another way for you to have an untruthful tongue, and that is through cowardly silence.

If you know something a person ought to know, and you, out of cowardice because you're afraid, you don't tell them. You are actually keeping them in a distorted reality by not saying anything. See, an untruthful tongue can be untruthful through lying and through just shutting up when you really ought to open your mouth.

When you're afraid to tell people something that they really need to know because you don't want to hurt their feelings or you don't want them to get mad at you or something like that,

you're disempowering them. You're withholding the truth from them. So you can withhold the truth from somebody as much by lying, as by shutting up in a cowardly way. And so that's untruthful speech, and that's very poisonous. We know about that. But then there's also unloving speech. Now, a lot of people feel in the Christian community, and here I'm especially talking to Christians,

that if I tell the truth, I tell people this is what the Bible says, this is the truth, this is what God says, it doesn't matter so much how I say it. What matters is I'm telling them the truth. But you're supposed to speak the truth in love. And if you speak the truth in a way that's not loving, it's not really caring about the truth. In Proverbs 25, verse 15, there's this curious verse that says, a gentle tongue can break a bone.

It's kind of a strange image, isn't it? A gentle tongue can break a bone. And one commentator tries to explain this beautifully when he says, well, you know, what is Proverbs saying there? He says,

Did you catch that? Look, if you're trying to tell somebody something they don't want to hear, you're trying to tell them the truth. If you're harsh, if you just lash out at them, what are you doing? You're actually enhancing their resistance to the truth. They're going to get their backs up, aren't they? Right? And therefore, you don't really care about the truth. You want to punish. You don't really care whether the person believes you or not. You're not standing up for the truth. You're just hurting the person. And what the Proverbs is saying, what the commentator is saying is, the best way of breaking down a person's resistance to the truth is be kind. It's telling the truth, but be gentle, be humble, show love, show respect. Because when you hear somebody telling you something you don't want to hear, you want to believe they don't like you. Then you can dismiss them. Oh, I know him. Consider the source. But when a person loves you and is humble and is gracious in the way they tell you the truth, it breaks down your resistance. And so here's the irony. If you're not loving, if you're not kind and gracious and timely in the way you speak to people, finding the right time. I've had so many people just tell the truth at the worst possible time. And when the person doesn't believe, well, I did my job. No, you didn't. You didn't. Unloving, truthful words aren't really, in the end, committed to the truth. And truthful words, see, and pardon me, and so-called loving, cowardly silence isn't committed to the truth. But also, you see, love without truth is a lie. Truth without love is not really committed to the truth. So truth without love isn't really truth. And love without truth isn't really love. Only when your words are both truthful and loving at the same time is your tongue life-giving.

Think about it. And by the way, there's other... Listen, when I say lies, don't forget exaggeration, strategic omission, and spin. All of which are technically factual, but designed to misrepresent. Okay.

Don't do that either. And when we do that, we are spreading poison. Now, if this is the case, if words that are not truthful and loving at the same time, are apt and timely and wise and gracious and direct and honest at once, you're destroying self-images, you're destroying relationships, you're destroying marriages, you're destroying society. Because the word is a bomb. Your words are like sparks. Now, having said that, what do we do? Oh my gosh, what do we do now? And the answer is complicated. Oh, you know, I don't have that much time left here, but I need to be honest about the fact that the healing of words is complicated. And here's why. The beginning and the ending of the chapter seem to give us two different strategies. At the beginning of the chapter, in verses 2, 1 and 2, it says, 1, 2, and 3, it says, if you can control the tongue, you can control your whole body. And that's a Semitic term that means your whole life. So verses 1, 2, and 3 is saying, if you can get control of what you say, it helps shape what goes on in your heart. But when you go to the bottom, I mean, not all the way to the bottom, but page 12, I mean, verse 12, it says, my brothers, can a fig tree bear olives or a grapevine bear figs? Neither can a salt spring produce fresh water. That seems to be saying the opposite. There, James is getting, tapping into the important teaching that your heart controls your tongue. See, at the beginning of the chapter, he seems to say, get control of your tongue, and that will influence your heart. But here he's saying, ultimately, it's your heart that influences your tongue. And this is what Jesus says in Matthew 12. I already quoted part of that, but here's what Jesus says in Matthew 12. He says, make a tree good, and its fruit will be good, or make a tree bad, and its fruit will be bad. For a tree is recognized, recognized by its fruit. See, James is essentially quoting that. How then can you who are evil say anything good? For out of what fills the heart, the mouth speaks. Out of what fills the heart, the mouth speaks. Hmm. So the first strategy says, get control of the tongue, and that'll help you understand and affect what's in your heart. But the second strategy is, fill the heart with something new, and that will affect your tongue. So, does that sound contradictory to you? Those two strategies are not contradictory. They are complementary, my dear Watson, complementary. Not elementary at all, but complementary. Okay? And here's how. Let's work through. I told you this isn't easy, but there's a balance here. First of all, strategy one. Get control of your tongue in order to shape what's in your heart. World Harvest Mission has a discussion about this. It's a discipleship course. And in that discipleship course, there is an assignment one week. And that assignment to the members of the course is this. For a week, never boast or defend yourself, and never gossip or speak negatively about somebody. It's a tongue assignment. On the one hand, don't boast or defend yourself. That's building yourself up. And don't gossip or speak negatively about somebody. That's tearing people down. For one week. I always thought that's the stupidest assignment I've ever heard in my life. A week. Are you kidding? Look, I would like you to do this. Tomorrow morning. Okay? From nine till noon. Do not defend yourself or boast. Do not gossip or speak negatively about anybody. Just try it for a morning. And then you'll need a long lunch. And here's the reason why. You will be amazed how much pride, how much defensiveness, how much insecurity, how much superiority. How much self-righteousness. How much you need to put people down. And how much you need to build people up. And how untruthful and unloving, especially, your words are. Because when you're defending yourself, you won't be completely truthful. And when you're talking about other people, you will not be loving.

And I'm dating myself here with this illustration. I want you to see that particular exercise is frightening. But it's also important. Because when you start to come to grips with your mouth and see how you're speaking, only then does it expose what's in your heart and help you come to grips with it and deal with it. I'm dating myself when I say, when Richard Nixon had to resign as President of the United States because of the Watergate tapes, his history will not tell you, I think, completely the truth about why that happened. Why that happened. Because the Watergate tapes were taped. The tapes that he had made of his conversations in private. But he did not think they would ever be brought out. And they were casual. He was just speaking. He was speaking casually. He was speaking spontaneously. Out of what was in his heart, his mouth was speaking. And when these were made, they were subpoenaed by Congress and they were made public. And history will tell you the reason he had to resign was because on one of the tapes, there was obstruction of justice, which, of course, was against the law. But frankly, what happened was, if you ever listen, read the transcripts of those tapes, the way he talked about his enemies, the way he talked about his friends, the way he mocked people, the way he disdained people, the viciousness, the pride, the ego, you know, the defensiveness, it was appalling. Richard Nixon lost the presidency because he never took the World Harvest Mission discipleship course. And he never took that assignment. And that assignment would have made him, he would have come to grips with saying, do you realize what your unguarded words are telling people about your heart, telling you about your heart? Deal with that. But he never did.

But you must. You've got to find those things. You've got to listen to your tongue. You've got to listen to your words. You've got to get a hold of those things. And that will help you get into grips with your heart. But what about the other strategy? Let's look at that other one. On the one hand, it's true. They come to grips with, in control of your mouth, helps you come to deal with what's in your heart. But more fundamentally, what fills your heart controls what you say with your mouth. Because when Jesus says, out of what fills the heart, the mouth speaks, in Matthew 12, that word literally, out of what fills the heart, is the word for excessiveness. And here's what he says. He means every single person's got something in your life that's filling your heart. Excessiveness. Over the top passion and desire. What do you most want in life? What is it that really, you feel like, if I have that, then I can receive life joyfully? If it's your reputation, if a good name is the most important thing to you, then when somebody criticizes you, you'll just, you'll cut them down with your words. You won't be loving. If approval is the most important thing, what really matters to you, is the love that you have for them. If approval is human approval, I want people to like me, then you're going to be a coward and you're never going to open your mouth and you're going to be untruthful by withholding the truth from people. Or maybe if you want money and you want status, you'll be spinning and exaggerating to get contracts, you won't be truthful. Whatever, if, what fills your heart isn't God and his love.

You will find yourself either being untruthful or unloving or both. Well, then how can it be healed? Here's how it can be healed. You know this very interesting little, it looks like just a rhetorical flourish in verse 6 when he says, when James says, it corrupts the whole person, it sets the whole course of his life on fire and is itself set on fire by hell. Is that just a little rhetorical flourish? That the, you know, our tongue is empowered by the fires of hell? That's a little rhetorical preacherly flourish, huh? You know, he's preaching on it. I got everybody scared, right? No, I don't think it's just a rhetorical flourish because he knows that there's two kinds of fires that can power the tongue. Because on Pentecost, in Acts chapter 2, fire from heaven came down in the form of little tongues of flame over everybody's head. And the people who received the Holy Spirit, their tongues were healed because they were able to speak so that everybody could understand them in words of compelling and surpassing beauty. What Jesus Christ had done. And Acts chapter 2, the Pentecost, the fire from heaven, not coming up from hell, the fire from heaven coming down and healing the speech is the opposite of what happened in Genesis 11. The Tower of Babel. When the people came together to make a name for themselves and to live for their own glory and to create a society based on their own power and their own pride, their own reputation and their own glory. And do you remember what happened? Their speech was changed. Their words were confused. Their words went poison. They broke up. They fragmented. They fought with each other. Do you remember that? Why? Because whatever fills your heart affects the mouth. And if what fills your heart is pride and reputation and status and approval and money and all that sort of thing, what will happen is your speech goes bad.

But Pentecost was the reversal of the curse of Babel. And when they saw the beauty of what Jesus Christ had done, their hearts were filled with praise and it healed their speech. Why? How would it heal their speech? Here's why. They weren't just praising God in general. They were praising God for what he'd done in Jesus Christ. And what he'd done in Jesus Christ is bring truth and love together on the cross. Why did Jesus die? Was it because of truth or was it because of love? Yes. Did he die because God is truth and God is holy and God is just and wrath on sin must be forgiven? Yes. Or did he die because he loved us and he didn't want to punish us because he wanted us to be saved and his heart was filled with mercy? Yes. There is the ultimate example of truth and love at once. But not only that, the reason why their hearts were filled with praise on that day by the power of the Holy Spirit was they understood what Jesus Christ had really done for them on the cross. When Jesus Christ called out to the Father on the cross, what happened? Silence.

You know, solitary confinement is torture. You know why? Because we're made in the image of God and we need words like we need food. Solitary confinement is torture. And on the cross, Jesus Christ got cosmic, ultimate solitary confinement. He got the silence of God. Why? It's what we deserve. It's what we deserve for the abuse of our wonderful gift of speech. But Jesus Christ, got the silence that we deserve, the punishment we deserve, so that we could get the word that he deserves. And what is that word? The word from God that comes down and says, this is my beloved child in whom I'm well pleased. This is my beloved child in whom I'm well pleased. And when you believe in Jesus Christ, John 1, 12 says, you're adopted. Romans 8, 16 says, Galatians 4 says, the Holy Spirit comes into our heart crying, this is my beloved child in whom I'm well pleased. And if that word comes into the center of your being, it doesn't matter what your father has said about you or your mother has said about you, what anybody else has said about you. Your heart now is filled with a sense of the beauty of what Jesus Christ did for you. And now your words will be healed because you don't care about your reputation the way you did before. You don't care what people think about you like you did before. Approval, reputation, those things don't matter. All that matters is the beauty of what Jesus did. He took the silence, you deserve so we could get that word in the center of our being that God loves us. That'll heal your heart. That'll heal your words. Let's pray. Our Father, help us to get control of our tongue and help us get a grip on the gospel of what Jesus did for us and now what you are saying to us in the gospel. Every day, your love for us, your care for us, your adopting of us so that our words can begin to not only get healed but our words can be healing in the lives of others. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.