you. We know that we have passed from death to life because we love our brothers. Anyone who does not love remains in death. Anyone who hates his brother is a murderer, and you know that no murderer has eternal life in him. This is how we know what love is. Jesus Christ laid down his life for us, and we ought to lay down our lives for our brothers. If anyone has material possessions and sees his brother in need but has no pity on him, how can the love of God be in him? Let us not love with words or tongue, but with actions and in truth. This is God's word. Oh my, and lots to say. This is about being in the family of God. In the beginning of chapter 3, and we spent a lot of time on it, so I certainly can't read a picture like this. We're told that Christians have been adopted into the family of God. God. In the beginning of chapter 3, John says, behold, what miraculous love God has presented to us that we should be called children of God, and that is what we are. He was having a kind of spiritual experience right there on the paper in front of us, and we looked at that. What he was exalting in is the fact that when we receive Christ, we are adopted into God's family. We're We're taken in. It's a legal action. It's an action of grace. And, you know, Jeff White, our song leader and associate pastor here, is an expert at this. He knows all about adoption, and he'll tell you what a powerful image it is. Adoption tells us that we are saved by grace. The little babies did not ask Jeff and Rebecca to adopt them. It was an act of grace and mercy on them. Later on, when they grow up, because I know Jeff and Rebecca are going to be great parents and are great parents, you. But I didn't have any idea what was happening when I was actually adopted, but thank you for doing it. That's how Christians are. See, we're saved by grace. We hardly know what's going on at first. God comes to us. God does it not because we've earned it, but simply because he's gracious to us. It's a free gift. We receive it not because we're good, not because we've earned it, but simply because we say, I see that I need salvation by mercy. And it's by mercy, not by work. So it's The act of free grace. But not only that, it's a legal thing. It happens once and for all. There's a moment in which the papers are signed. There's a moment in which when you're adopting a child, that is not your daughter, then she is your daughter. That is not your son, now she is your son. Then he is your son. Just like that. You cross the line. There's a legal spot. And becoming a Christian means you pass from not being to being in the family of God. Now, John is continuing to tell us about this family of God and the family of God. And all I can do is tell you three things I see in this passage that he tells us about this whole subject. The three things, I say them now is to kind of discipline myself and stick with it and try to get through all three of them even if I want to spend more time on any of them, any one of the points that I have time for. Here are the three points. If you look, you'll see in this passage he tells us at least three things about the family of God. First of all, in verse 10 he tells us everybody is in some spiritual family and there's only two. First thing he tells us, and this is radical and it's also threatening and I approach this in fear and trembling. He says that everybody's in some spiritual family and there's only two in the whole world. So there's only two spiritual families. The second thing he says is that it's family consciousness. It's family consciousness which is the mainspring, the engine of the Christian life. The thing that makes you The thing which empowers you in the Christian life, above all, is a consciousness of being in the family of God. It's family consciousness. That's the thing that drives you. So the second point is your family consciousness is the mainspring of the Christian life. And the third thing is that love is the central mark and the main way in which you know that you are in the family of God. Now, those are three not very parallel points, but they're all there and they're all very important, so I'm going to say it. give it to you in a nice, easy three words or, you know, all starting with the letter P or anything like that, like I like to do. But I couldn't work it out any other way. Let's just take a look at the principles. They're very important, very profound. First of all, in verse 10, he says, this is how we know who the children of God are and who the children of the devil are. Now, right here, we are at the threshold of something that's very threatening, but I would like to make it as practical as possible. It's also very profound. It's penetrating

It says that there really is no other family than these two.

And that everybody is in a spiritual family. Everybody is in a certain spiritual condition. Now, the reason I push this, let me show you how this works out practically, is I'm constantly talking to folks who say, you're a Christian, you have faith, you're religious, not me. I'm not religious. I'm not a spiritual type. I have trouble believing. I don't believe. I don't have faith. I'm not able to do it. You're able to have faith. I can't do it. I wish I could. You took a leap of faith, and I'm very happy for you, but I can't do that. I'm a down-to-earth person. So I'm always talking, especially in Manhattan, to people who say, I'm not religious. I'm not spiritual. I'm not. I don't believe. This text tells us that is a superficial analysis. Everybody is religious. everybody is spiritual. Everybody is in one of two spiritual camps. And that fundamentally all of these spiritual, faith, and religious camps are one or the other. Everybody's religious. This week, and I don't know if it's still on the stands, this week I noticed the psychology today, I don't even know, is that a weekly, is that a monthly? The current issue of psychology today, which is out on the stands, I saw it on the subway. way. And at the top, the main article is forbidden thoughts. And you know, on the cover is a woman with hardly any clothes on. Just in case you weren't having any forbidden thoughts, just they thought it would be a good idea to kind of give you a few to deal with so that you would read the magazine. You know, I was thinking, this is incredible. Marketing has advanced to this high level of sophistication. It was amazing. I didn't have any forbidden thoughts until I was looking at the magazine, and then I obviously needed it, you know? So anyway, forbidden thoughts. Underneath it, it says, the sublines, when they're okay, how to handle them. Okay, forbidden thoughts. When they're okay, how to handle them. Now, it is most disingenuous for such an article to be in a magazine purporting to be psychology. And here I'll tell you why. Psychology, properly understood and properly done, is a science. A science is empirical observation. Science tells you that there are various sorts of thoughts and the kinds of thoughts, but science can only tell you what is, never what ought to be. Never.

As soon as you say, some of these thoughts are okay. Some sexual thoughts are okay. Some sexual thoughts are not okay. We'll tell you which thoughts are okay and which thoughts are not okay and how to handle them. That is a religious statement and it's based on religious premises. Well, somebody says, what do you mean? He says, that's just not true. If you read through the book, you'll see basically the position is very typical to people in Manhattan. People in Manhattan say, you know, I believe that everybody has to make up their mind for themselves. What is moral for them? I'm not a religious person. and I believe everybody has to make up their own decision as to what's right. Morality is a matter of personal experience. But to say that is based on a religious premise. At the moment you say that, you are believing. What are you believing? You are basing what you say on your belief that there's no judgment day. That there's no judge. That there will not be a judge who stands and judges everyone on the last day by immutable standards of right. you know there's an awful lot of prophets an awful lot of holy writings an awful lot of people who said God has shown us that this is true you can't prove there's no judgment day if you decide there is no judgment day that is a religious belief you are basing your whole life on it and you can't prove it you are basing your entire destiny on it and you can't prove it that's a religious position to say we can tell you and which are not okay, and even that you can handle them, this is filled with religious premises. And those religious premises are, have to do with, is there a God? Is there eternity? Is there a right and wrong? And as soon as you say, well, I think that everybody has to make their mind up for themselves, you can't prove that. That is a value statement. That's all right. But that is a profoundly religious thing. And here's what's so interesting. People say to me, I wish I could believe like you do. Sometimes they say, They say, you took the leap of faith. I can't. Don't be ridiculous. Look at that. You've all leapt. What do you mean, I wish I could leap? You've all leapt. You are assuming that you're competent to run your own life if you're not religious in the traditional sense. You are assuming that you can be your own judge. That there is no final judge. That you can be the own ruler of your life. You're assuming that you're competent to run your life. You're assuming that you're competent to decide what's right and wrong for you. Those are profoundly religious statements. there's only two religions. You can either decide that God's my judge or that you're your own judge. That I'm living for God to serve God or I'm living to serve myself. That only God is competent to run my life or I'm only competent to run my life. Neither of those are scientific. Those aren't scientific conclusions. Those are faith premises and you're betting your entire life on them. At least admit it. But now look. The first created being who ever decided to make that his religion was the devil. He's the first created being who said, I am competent to run my own life. Who said, just take your hands off to God. And when you do that, and that is the one way to run your life. The other way is to say, thy will be done. The other way is to say, my will be done. I mean, those are the only two positions you can have. Those are the only two bases on which to run a life. They are profoundly religious. They're profoundly spiritual. And when you say, My will be done, you're imitating. You are in the tradition of the first created being who ever did that. Who ever set life up like that. And that's the devil. And what this is saying then in verse 10 is there's only two religions. You're one or the other. Which is it? And they are religions. And they are spiritual. They're spiritual constructs. Admit it. See that. Realize that you're betting your life on God. one or the other. None of this nonsense, you're religious, I'm not. You had a leap of faith and I haven't. You're all leaping. We're all leaping. We all leapt. We've all landed.

Do you know where you've landed? Do you know where you're standing? Have you thought it out? So people don't think out the religious implications of their positions. They hold all sorts of incoherent positions. They don't think them out because they have this illusion that they're not religious. You're all in some spiritual family. you're all following in the footsteps either of Lucifer, the devil himself, or Jesus Christ who said, thy will be done. It's one or the other. I know this is a pretty frightening thing to think about. And if you haven't been to church in a long time and you've walked in here, you say, what is going on? I'm just asking you to think. I'm not telling you that I'm sure where you stand. Look at yourself.

This is how we know who the children of God are and who the children of the devil are and there's no other kind of children. Jesus got people very upset. You know, he told the religious leaders. Remember in John 8? Go take a look at it. Jesus told the religious leaders, you don't believe in me. You're not willing to let me run your life. And they said, yes, that's because we're children of Abraham. And he says, no, you're not. You're children of the devil. You're either my children or you're his children. That's it. John 8. Just realize that is the position. Now, that's the first point. Unfortunately, I told you this. It takes time to think about that. But just realize you've all leapt. You've all landed. You're all in some spiritual family. Now, secondly, we're also told here, and this is really quite wonderful, that the mainspring of the Christian life is a consciousness of the family you're in. Look, it says, this is how we know who the children of God are and who the children of the devil are. Anyone who does not do what is right is not a child of God, nor is anyone who does not love his brother. This might seem basic, and actually I can make this point rather quickly and move to the last one, which is very important to drag out a little teeny bit. You'll never ever see in the Bible anywhere

moralism, or behaviorism. You will never, ever see Paul or Peter or the apostles, when they're trying to tell you, love one another, tell the truth, be generous to the poor. I mean, in the Bible, they're continually telling you to do things that in a lot of ways all religions do. Just go to the back of that great C.S. Lewis classic, The Abolition of Man, and he'll show you that all the religions basically say, Honor your father and your mother. Help the poor. Be generous. Don't accrue too much wealth to yourself. They say, make sure that you're kind to people. Make sure that you show love. Don't envy. Don't steal. They're all there. But why? Why should we live this way? Why should we live that way? Why? I would suggest that all the philosophies say, in order to become what you want to be. And Christianity says, because you've already attained, and now you have to be what you are. You never see in the Bible behaviorism. Just do it. They always say, look at who you are in Jesus. You're a child of God. That's why you should live righteously. You're a son or a daughter of the king. That's why you should love. at what he's done for you. Look at who you are. It's amazing. This is always the way it goes. And I tell you that if I had time, I'd show you that is profound psychology. Last week we said that if you don't believe in the gospel, if you don't believe the Christian message, which is that you are so sinful that Jesus had to die for you, but you're so loved and valued, that he was willing. And now your sins are put away and he can accept you freely as you are, not on the basis of your works, but on the basis of his works. That's the gospel. Now, if you reject that, you either have religion of truth without grace or religion of grace without truth. Remember truth without grace? We call that Brady Bunch morality. morality. Truth without grace says, be good, and God will love you. Do the right thing, okay? These are people, why are they doing good things? Because they're trying to become a child of God. And on the other hand, you've got people who believe in grace without truth, which is, well, God loves you just as you are, and everybody, you know, has to work it out for yourself. self. You see, nobody can tell you what's right or wrong for you. You know, write your own words, sing your own song, write your own scripts for your life. So you have moralism or individualism. But in both cases, the people are frantically trying to become what they want to be. And that's why they're doing the things they're doing. But the Bible doesn't say that Christianity is truth without grace or grace without truth. We're told that when Jesus Christ came, the Word became flesh and dwelled among us and we beheld his glory. Glory is of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. And that means that we already have become children of God legally and now we're just simply trying to spin it out. We're thinking out the implications of who we are. We're not told do this and do this and do this to become children of God. We're told do this and do this and do this because you are children of God. I cannot tell you how different the psychology is on those two ways of thinking. Utterly different. Do this because look at the glory of what you are. In fact, I think, you see, in verse 2, which is not here, in chapter 3, verse 2, it says you're destined for glory. Your Father is never going to give up on you. You are children of God. And He's going to make you into something absolutely glorious. And it says whoever hopes for that. We don't even know what it's going to be like to see Him as He is. But we will be like Him. Remember that? And it says if you hope for that, you purify yourself as He is pure. Right? There it is again. What is the Bible saying? It's saying don't you see why you should be honest? Why you should not give into temptation? Don't you see why you should be faithful? Don't you see why you should do all these things? Don't you see how ridiculous it is to contradict your destiny? What you really are? Don't you see how fruitless it is to go in a different direction when God's always going to bring you back? Don't you see?

The reason a Christian doesn't sin anymore is that when you get back into sin,

a Christian starts to realize, this isn't me. But that's utterly different than the way all the other systems operate. It says, you better be good or God's going to get you. That's not the way Christians operate at all. Christians say, this isn't me. This isn't me. I know who I am. When I've experienced his love, then I know who I am. I don't want to be away from that. When I'm thinking about life through the prism of his attributes, then life makes sense. When I get away from him, I'm suddenly caught in all the intellectual contradictions. When a Christian begins to sin, you start to say, this isn't me. That's profound psychology, and that's the way the Bible operates. It never tells you to be loving unless it first tells you because you're loved. It never says, be loving so that God will love you. It says, be loving because you are awashed in it. God has lavished it. Remember chapter 3, verse 1? Behold what manner of love the Father has lavished upon us. So it's always, it's so rational. Christianity is so thoughtful. It's always thinking things out. It's never just do it. Frankly, and I don't want to make fun of it, because at some points you do have to just use willpower. I'm not saying that you always feel what you should do. I'm not saying by any means that if you know what is right to do. And you don't feel like doing it. You shouldn't do it. Oh, of course you should do it. You know why? Because Christians are so coherent in the way in which they approach life. They say, I know who I am, even though I don't feel right. I know who I am. I know what is right to do. I remember what God has said. I remember what God has done for me. I know who I am in Christ. And therefore, see how rational it is? This is the way I'm going to live. I'm going to draw out the implications of what I know is true of me. Okay, lastly. First thing we see is there's only two spiritual families in the world. Secondly, the driving engine and force in your life is a knowledge that you're a child of God. That's not mechanical, that's organical.

That is not fear-based, that's love-based. That's not behaviorism, that's holistic. But lastly, we're told here that the way, the central way you know that you're in the family of God is love. And look, it says, this is the message you've heard from the beginning. We should love one another. Do not be surprised if the world hates you. We know that we've passed from death to life because we love. And verse 16, this is how we know what love is. Jesus Christ laid down his life for us, and we ought to lay down our lives for our brothers. Now, I only have one illustration to use to get this across. Why does it say you heard from the beginning? and I'll tell you why.

When Christianity first burst on to the scene in that old Greco-Roman world, it was immediately amazing to the people around because of the love, the sign that something is real going on here, the sign that something vital is going on here, was the love. Now there's a number of ways in which it was shown, on one. In Antioch, for example, in the earliest days of the church, we're told in the book of Acts, in Antioch, Antioch was one of the most ethnically diverse cities in the whole world, maybe even more ethnically diverse than Rome. What was so interesting about it was that you know how most cities had walls around the outside, but this city, like some others, but Antioch had walls inside, separating the different ethnic groups from each other. We know from history, if I can find it here, know from history there was a Syrian section, a Jewish section, an African section, and a Greek section at least. And there were walls between them to keep them away from each other because, you know, these are different people and you just don't mix with those other folks and so on. But Acts 11 tells us something amazing. It says, some Christians from Cyprus and Cyrene who had come to faith in Jerusalem went to Antioch and began to speak to Greeks as well as Jews, telling them the good news. The Lord's hand was with them and a great number of people believed, and turned to the Lord. News reached the ears of the leaders of Jerusalem, and they sent Barnabas up there to Antioch. And he was amazed, and he ran back and he verified it. Why? What was so amazing? The people were coming to Christ across the walls. And they weren't just coming to Christ across the walls, they were worshiping across the walls. The walls were coming down. And we're told in Acts chapter 11 that it was the very first place that the followers of Jesus Christ were called Christians. It was the first time that the term was ever used. Why? Because nobody had a word for this. When the early Christians were all Jewish, they said, well, it's sort of a Jewish party. But now, the world had never seen anything like this. They had never seen it. They'd never seen barriers come down. They'd never seen people who got a hold of a truth so powerful that it relativized all their ethnic pride, all of their cultural ethnocentrism and superiority, so that they were able to look at people of other races and other classes, even the most despised by their own races and classes, and say, brother, sister. Nobody had ever seen this. They had to come up with a word and they had to give it another word and they called it Christians. In fact, Acts 13 tells us that when they chose the first team of pastors, one was Simeon called Niger. He was African. Niger means black. The second was Lucius of Cyrene. He was a Tunisian from North Africa, probably brown. Menaen was of the family of Herod, we're told. In other words, he was royalty. He'd grown up with Herod, and somehow he'd come to faith in Christ. Barnabas was a Cypriot, and Paul was a Jew.

what's going on here? There was no word to describe it. And that's the reason why John can say, you heard about this from the beginning. From the very beginning. The world has always been shocked. One of the main reasons the world says, something is going on here. Something's going on here. Maybe these people are children of God. Maybe something supernaturally has happened because we've never seen a religion like this. Never. let me just point out one more thing there's a historian a guy named Kenneth Scott Latterette he's dead now, he used to teach history at Yale and he has a very interesting book on a very important historical question why was it that Christianity was one of hundreds of religions vying, you know in the marketplace of ideas in the Roman Empire and it was not particularly well backed and it was not particularly well-connected, why did it completely sweep every other one away? Historians have a lot of trouble with that. Latteret says it's very difficult to understand why did Christianity win? That's the name of his article. And he has a set of, what's interesting, he has a set of points. And he says, well, Christianity was better than all the other religion in these five areas. But that still doesn't quite explain it. He says, fourth, the reason for Christianity's success was it was totally inclusive, far more inclusive than any other of its competitor religions or any other the religion ever had been. It attracted all races and classes. Now listen, the pagan, this is a quote, the pagan deities often were tied and confined to regions and nations. And even in the days of its most active proselyting activities, Judaism never overcame its racial boundaries. Converts had to become culturally Jewish. But Christianity gloried in its appeal to Jew, Gentile, African, and barbarian. The philosophies of Greece and Rome, on the other hand, appealed to the educated only, but could never win the masses. And it was one of the charges versus Christianity that it drew the lowly and uneducated multitude that its essential teaching was so simple anyone could understand. Yet Christianity also developed a philosophy that converted some of the greatest minds of history. Christianity, too, was for both sexes. And women were active in its ministry while two of its main rivals were almost completely, two of the main religions that were competitors men. Finally, the mystery religions of the day were mainly for the rich because initiation into the mystery religions was expensive. No other religion could take in so many groups and strata of society. But, and this is what he says, this doesn't really explain why Christianity succeeded. For the historian must still ask, why did such unprecedented inclusiveness appear in Christianity when it had not appeared in any other religion to date? and then just a little ways down in the paragraph he says, the one tenable explanation of Christianity's inclusiveness was its unique teaching of the uniqueness of Jesus. If Jesus was not just a teacher showing us the way of salvation, but the Son of God who accomplishes salvation, then members of both sexes and all races, the learned and the ignorant, the able and the non, might share in the salvation made possible by Christ. You see what he's saying? He's virtually giving you historic evidence for what John says. He says Christianity swept through because it gave us a truth. It brought down all the barriers. What was the truth? The truth was, listen, you don't have to agree with this. You don't have to agree that Jesus was the unique Son of God, that he wasn't like Mohammed, he wasn't like Buddha. You don't have to agree with that. You just have to see this, that's what the Christians taught, why they loved one another across the walls in ways that made people say, maybe they are children of God. Only because it taught, Christianity taught, that Jesus was the Son of God, so he accomplished salvation. So it doesn't matter what your record is. It doesn't matter whether you're low or high. You all need salvation. And you all can have it equally. That's the reason why John could say what he says. Don't you see? It's amazing. You heard this from the beginning. another. That's how you know. We know we've passed from death to life because of this love that is unparalleled. And this is how we know what love is. Jesus laid down his life for us.

That's number one. I say that the way you know you're in the family of God is that people get along in the family of God who can't get along anywhere else. Now, if you look around and say, I don't see churches like that, that doesn't disprove Christianity. It disproves the church. doesn't disprove Christianity it disproves that congregation because the fact of the matter is as I just showed you it's a historical fact that the gospel when understood creates that kind of love

that's your evidence if you don't see much of it Christians we better start to look at our own hearts are we living in accord with what we know are we being who we are we working out the implications of being sons and daughters of God by grace alone If we do, the world will know that he loves us. Let's pray. Let it be, Father, that we start to live out the implications and the ramifications of this great gospel. This is love. Jesus Christ laid down his life for us. When we understand that and we live in holy consciousness of that, the world will see that we're children of God. Let it be true. Let us know the joy and power of that. increasingly of this particular congregation and the churches of New York City and the churches across the world. Let there be a revival of love, your love and ours. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.
