Ezekiel chapter 37, verses 1 through 14.

Then he said to me,

So I prophesied as I was commanded, and as I was prophesying, there was a noise, a rattling sound, and the bones came together, bone to bone. I looked, and tendons and flesh appeared on them, and skin covered them, but there was no breath in them. Then he said to me, prophesy to the breath, prophesy, son of man, and say to it, this is what the sovereign Lord says,

It says, This is what the Sovereign Lord says.

the Lord. This is God's word. Ezekiel was a prophet in Babylon, in the land of exile. Now, why were the Israelites in Babylon? Well, God had originally given the Israelites absolutely

everything. When God brought Israel together, he said, everything I'm giving you is a gift. your land, your nation, your national identity, your freedom. I gave it to you. So if you turn away from me, if you turn away from my sustaining hand, you will lose everything. But they did turn away from him, and they did lose everything. And they were invaded by the Babylonians, and they were taken into exile, and they had no hope of a future. and yet God through Ezekiel gives them a picture of resurrection in chapter 37 it's a very famous passage that was not only a hope and a strength to them but it's a hope and a strength to us let me show you first of all it's a hope the reason why verse 11 says that the children of Israel said these bones are the whole house of Israel they say our bones are dried up and our The vision of the dry bones, a whole valley filled with not just dead bodies, not just skeletons, not just bones, but dry bones. This is a picture of how Israel thought of themselves as a nation. Our bones are dried up. In other words, even though they still thought of themselves as a nation, it was a matter of time. They had been taken away from their land. They had been put into a dominant culture that was many times larger than they were. scattered and therefore within a few generations they would lose their national identity. They wouldn't even think of themselves as a people anymore. In other words, they were on their way to the death of a nation. Their national identity was dying. And more than that, their hope was dying. You see, as a nation they had a hope. And that hope, though they didn't completely understand it, came down to them through Abraham, their ancestor Abraham. Because God said to Abraham, through your descendants, I will bless all the nations of the earth. And Israel knew that in some way that they had the message of salvation, that they had the word of God's revelation, that somehow the salvation of the whole world was coming into the world through them. That was their purpose in life. That was their hope. That's why they maintained their national identity. Now it seemed to be gone. They weren't dead yet as a nation, but they were virtually dead. And, of course, the word, verse 11, they said, we're cut off. That's a covenant curse. That's curse language. Because when God brought them together at Sinai, he said, if you obey my covenant, if you obey my laws, I'll bless you, but if you disobey, you'll be cut off. And cut off is the curse of the covenant. It's the penalty for disobeying and turning from God. To be cut off means to die. To be cut off means to be cut off from God. It means to be cut off from your hope, your future. And so Israel essentially as a nation was virtually dead because they were in exile. Now, let's stand back. You say, well, that's interesting. That's a historical fact, and I don't know what I have to do with it. A lot. Because the Bible says that there's a bigger exile that all of us take part in.

Israel's exile was just a picture of the human exile, not Abraham. And in Genesis, we're told that when Adam and Eve sinned, the human race, and they represented the human race, was put in exile from the Garden of Eden. And what was in the middle of the Garden of Eden? The tree of life. In other words, the Bible says we were not meant to die. And deep in your heart, I don't know who you are, I don't know what you believe, but deep in your heart, I think you know that's right. We were not meant to die. Death is unnatural. Death is wrong. and we tend to live our lives as if we're never going to die. And yet, whenever we're in a situation where we admit the fact that death is inevitable, in fact, we admit the fact that death is imminent, it's coming, it comes very fast, you lose all meaning in life. You lose all hope. And you have a sense that there's something wrong. The whole human race is in exile.

We're all in exile. We're exiled from our true home. We're exiled from our true selves. our true nature, we weren't meant to die.

And as a result, all of us are in that ultimate exile, and all of us, therefore, face death, and because of that, death makes our lives hopeless and meaningless,

to the degree we acknowledge the reality. To me, one of the things that always was fascinating to me, I've actually been thinking about it for years, and if you've been around here, you know I've referred to it. A man named Viktor Frankl, who was a doctor, a Jewish doctor, who was put in the death camps, and he survived the death camps during World War II, wrote a book called Man's Search for Meaning. And in it he noticed that, and as a doctor he was fascinated by the fact that the death camps were horrible places. Death was imminent. Death was everywhere. Death could take you like that. You were stripped of everything. It was an awful experience. And he noticed that people responded to it in one of three ways. Some people got bad. They lost all their principles. They did anything to survive. They betrayed one another. They exploited people. They were informers for the Nazis and so forth. Some people responded to the suffering and imminent death by being bad, did anything to survive. Some people just gave up. They literally kind of dried up. They withered. Sometimes they actually literally lay down, curled up in a ball, and died. became despondent. So some got bad, some gave up, and some became quietly heroic. Some people had courage, made sacrifices, were really heroic. And Dr. Viktor Frankl said, what was the difference? And he came to this conclusion. It depended on what your hope was. If you had a hope or a meaning in life, if you had a hope, something you live for, that suffering and death could take away from you, then you were a goner in the death camp. If you live for money, that money was all taken away from you. If you live for your family, your family was taken away from you. If you live for status, well, you know, rich and poor were all thrown together in the same hole and all dressed in the same rags. And he realized that most people did not have a hope that could stand up to death. death. They didn't have a hope that could overcome death. They had a hope only for this life. You know, Paul says in 1 Corinthians 15, he says, if we as Christians have a hope only for this life, we are of all people most miserable. Most everybody, Dr. Frankel realized, lives for things in this life. We live for status, we live for money, we live for love, we live for things. But suffering and death, which is inevitable, it's inevitable, will take that all away. It'll

and what that means is we're all in exile. We were not meant to die

and as a result where Israel's exile was a national exile they were still virtually, they were alive but they were virtually nationally dead. You and I are physically alive. We're sitting here, aren't we? But we're virtually dead too. Death is coming sooner or later. and death takes out hope unless you've got a hope that can transcend death. Now, what did God give to the Israelites? He gives them this picture of a resurrection. In verse 7, the bones come together into skeletons. In verse 8, the skin comes together over the bodies. But then, that's not enough. Now we have corpses there. It's an amazing picture. And then God says, let's bring the wind, the four winds, verse 14, is the Spirit of God. You bring the Spirit of God, and the Spirit of God breathes on these dead bodies, and they come to life. Now, what is this? It's a metaphor, of course. It's a metaphor for return from exile. God is saying, you're virtually dead as a nation, but I'm going to bring you back, and I'm going to give you back your hope. And of course, they did, and they God did bring the Mac out of exile eventually, and the nation of Israel continued to do its job.

And yet, think about something. As great as it was for the Israelites to escape that national exile and escape national death, they were all human beings, weren't they? And they still had the bigger problem that you and I have. They hadn't escaped physical death. They hadn't escaped the ultimate exile. And therefore, there was an even greater return from exile, an even greater escape from death that needed to happen than this. And it did. You know when it happened? John chapter 20 tells us that the disciples of Jesus were gathered together in the upper room. On the night he rose from the dead, three days after he had died, he appeared physically in the room and remember what he did? He breathed on them. This is in John chapter 20. He breathed on them and said, receive the Holy Spirit. What's that about? It's about Ezekiel.

It's Jesus Christ saying, I am about to lead the ultimate return from exile. I'm about to get you out of the ultimate problem. I am going to have you escape from death itself if you believe in me. I will breathe my Holy Spirit into you. And that means that because I was raised from the dead, if you believe in me, someday you will be raised from the dead. And there is the ultimate hope. There is a hope that death camps can't take away from you. Do you see that? That's an infallible hope. That's an industrial strength hope. That's a hope that nothing can eradicate.

No wonder Paul could actually thumb his nose at death. Do you know where he does that? Oh, it's a little hard, especially if you read the King James Bible. Paul sounds so poised when he says, O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory? He's sort of a Shakespearean. O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory? What he's actually saying is, na, death. Come on, death. Just try.

If you try to diminish me, now that I have the Holy Spirit in me, of Jesus Christ breathing his life into me. If you try to diminish me, you'll only enhance me. If you try to lay me low, you'll only raise me higher. If you try to destroy me, you will only create me, recreate me into something more glorious than you can ever imagine. It's the reason why George Herbert, the great 17th century poet, one of his lines says, death used to be an executioner, but the gospel makes him just a gardener. it used to be death put you in the ground but now all death can do is plant you in like a seed and you become something so beautiful here's another one of George Herbert's poems where he says spare not do thy worst talking to death spare not do thy worst thou shall only make me better than before and listen before moving on here do you see this hope do you have this hope please don't let the world tell you something that they try to tell you. The world tries to say, oh, death is so natural. Death is natural. Death isn't bad. You just, you die and death is natural. It's part of the nature of things. It's part of the circle of life. You die. Oh, there's nothing wrong with death. No, it's wonderful. It's wonderful. Death is wonderful. The circle of life. Remember, you know, the big lion and the little lion in Disney and the little lion says, understand, Father, how are we part of the great circle of life? Well, his son, you see, he says, you know, we eat the antelope, but then we die and we become fertilizer for the grass that the antelope eats. And so we're all part of the great circle of life. Isn't that wonderful? You're fertilizer. Tell yourself that and see if that gets you through the death camp. No, it doesn't. Disney isn't as right as Dylan Thomas, because Dylan Thomas says those famous lines, do not go gentle into that night. Rage, rage against the dying of the light. See, that's more Christian. You know in your heart what the Bible says, I think no matter who you are, that you're not meant to die, that death is unnatural, that death is an enemy, that death is wrong.

I feel that way when I see a young person in a casket. I feel that way when I see an old person. I'm sorry. And you do too. And this is the solution. this is the hope. Now, briefly, let me, I mentioned that this was not just a hope, but it's also a strength. That is, how do you get this hope into you? Wouldn't you like to have this at the very center of your life? I mean, how do you get it? You're sitting here, you're listening and saying, well, that's interesting. Okay, how do I get it into my life so it really becomes a power? And there's three things that the text tells us. They're actually pretty practical. They're pretty practical. You've got to hear the truth. You've got to be born again by the Spirit. And you've got to believe the gospel. And that gets it in. Let me show you pretty quickly. Number one, you've got to hear the truth. Did you notice how God, in this vision, gives the bones new life? What does he do? Does he snap his fingers? No. What does he do? Class. He asks Ezekiel, a preacher, to preach to the bones. now by the way many of us preachers know about this experience

come on come on think about this so all preachers know what it's like to preach to people who don't get it but this is pretty extreme don't you think and God says I want you to preach the word of God to the dry bones. And this is one way of seeing what? And that is that it's the truth. It's the word of God, the truth, which is the vehicle for this hope getting into your life. Don't sit there and say, God, just zap me and make me a happier and better and stronger person. No, no, you gotta believe the truth. You gotta hear the word. See, today, well, we have a culture in which the world says, Christians? Are you people who believe you have the truth? Just say that my religion gives me peace and joy in my private life, that it's all very symbolical. Don't take it literally. It's symbolic. Don't take it literally. Yes, yes. Don't say Jesus Christ is actually the Son of God, and he's come to earth, and he was physically raised from the dead. See it as a symbol. Because if you believe you have the truth, that divides people, and that's not good. Let's just have a kind of general spirituality, not an understanding that you have the truth. Okay, let's see how that Let's go back to the original days of the early church. Let's go to the Roman Empire and let's go out into the streets and talk to the slaves and to the poor. And let's give them modern New York version of spirituality and say, you know what? I want to talk to you about Easter, but it's only a symbol. It's a symbol that somehow spring follows winter and somehow after bad times, good times will come. So if you just hold on, I just know things will get better. slaves and the poor of the Roman Empire say, wow, this just changes my life. Now I have something with which I can face my grinding poverty and oppression. No, of course they wouldn't. They'd probably say, get out of my face or whatever the Latin or Greek version of that is. But the early Christian preachers didn't do that. They came and said, I want to tell you the truth, capital T, The truth is that God came to earth in the form of Jesus Christ and he went right into the belly of death and he exploded with his perfect righteousness and he broke the back of death and he was raised from the dead because death couldn't hold him. Now, if he breathes his life into you, you will be raised from the dead. In the future, God is going to make the whole world a new world. All suffering and decay and death will be taken away. and that's the truth. And you say that to the slaves and the poor of the Roman Empire, and they say, that gives me hope, and it does. It's got to be true, not just some nice sentiment. It's got to be true. So first, you've got to believe it happened, and there's lots and lots of evidence for it. You've got to believe it happened, that Jesus was raised from the dead. Number two, you actually have to have the Spirit of God come into you. That's what the breathing means. means both chapter 36 and 37 of Ezekiel are recounted in John chapter 3 see in Ezekiel 36 God goes into a little bit more detail about what it means to put the spirit in you in Ezekiel 36 he says I will sprinkle clean water on you and you will be clean I will cleanse you from all your impurities and from your idols I will give you a new heart and put a new spirit in you I will remove from you your heart of stone and give you a heart of flesh. I will put my spirit in you and move you to follow my decrees and be careful to keep my laws. And in John chapter 3, when Jesus is talking to Nicodemus, and he says, you must be born again, he says, you must be born again of water and the spirit. That's the same language as Ezekiel 36 and 37. And basically, what this means is, when you believe the truth, is before you are physically resurrected at the end of time, you must be spiritually resurrected right now and that's what the new birth is. What is the new birth? It means you say, I believe. And when you believe, in comes Christ and there's a spiritual resurrection. What is that? Well, you know what? 1 Peter, since we're talking about hope here, 1 Peter 1.3 says, we are born again into hope. Isn't that something? We're born again into hope because of the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. And what that means is when you're born again, you're like plunged into the hope, almost like plunged into a vat of hope. You begin to realize, this is how it works with the death camps, by the way. You get a status. You know God loves you. You get a status that's more important than any other human status that can be conferred on you. You get an approval and a love that's more important than anybody else's love. You get a wealth and a security that is more important than any worldly wealth and security. And that's what enables you to face the death camps. So you have to hear the truth. And you have to be born again. How do you get born again? By believing the gospel. And there's two things that we see here in the gospel. Here's the first thing. If you believe the gospel, you have to see that you're a sinner and that you need to be saved by grace. Notice what this text teaches you and me. We're dry bones. We're not sick in our sins. We're dead in our sins. we're not just hurting and we need a little bit of help from God we are spiritually dead and we need to be saved by sheer grace there is absolutely no way we can possibly merit or earn the salvation there's nothing we can do we have to receive it as a free gift if there's no image anywhere in the bible that tells you that it's this one you connect Ezekiel 37 to Ephesians 2 where it says we are dead in our trespasses and sins and the first part of believing the gospel is you've got to admit that. You can't just say, well, I believe in you, Lord. Show me what I have to do in order to put myself right with you. No, you're missing point one of the gospel. The point one is you're dead. There's nothing you can do. You can only receive God's grace. And the second point of the gospel is what? What did Jesus do for you? Verse 11 says we are cut off. The Israelites knew that they deserve the covenant curse. We are cut off. And yet God sends them back. Why?

Hadn't they really sinned? Hadn't they deserved to be cut off? Yes, they were cut off. And you and I deserve to be cut off. But what happened? What did Jesus Christ come to do? He's the great suffering servant depicted in Isaiah 53. And in Isaiah 53, verse 8, it says, he was cut off from the land of the living.

off. He came and he was cut off in our place so that we can be received. Do you believe that? See, the resurrection, the belief in the resurrection without connecting it to the cross will not change your life and put hope in you. The resurrection is almost just a tremendous supernatural feat. It's a terrific miracle, but you have to see what it points back to. The fact that Jesus Christ died in your place, he was cut off from the land of the living for you, And if you see that he did that, and that moves you, and that amazes you, and you see that's the basis for God accepting you by free grace, that will put that hope in there that will enable you to face anything. You know, the last verse, I want you to think of one last thought that I want to leave you with. The last verse says, I will put my spirit in you, I will settle you in your own land, and then you will know that I, the Lord, have spoken, and I have it, declares the Lord. All the way through here, it says,

Didn't they already know he was the Lord? Weirdly enough, yes. But because of the exile, and because of his deliverance from the exile, bringing him back, they saw something about who he was, his glory, in a way they never would have seen if there hadn't been the exile. But you say, I thought the exile was bad. Yes, and it should never have happened. No, it shouldn't have. very bad because of their sin, yes, and yet, because of the exile, they will know God in a way they hadn't known him before. Do you see, you know what the principle is? Paul says, your afflictions are preparing a weight of glory. He says that in 2 Corinthians. He says, your afflictions are preparing a weight of glory. Jesus Christ, when he appeared in that upper room, you could still see his nail prints. Isn't that weird? Why wouldn't they have wiped out the nail but they're still there. I believe that God is so triumphant over evil that every scar that you incur in this life will only make your eventual joy and glory in the resurrection greater. The resurrection does not only give you hope eventually for the future, it gives you hope to handle your scars right now. You say, why did God make me go through this? Why did God make me go through this? Historically, I can't answer that. That is, you know, if that happened, then that wouldn't have happened, and that wouldn't have happened, and God knows why all these things happen historically. But I can tell you what I can tell you, and that is the bad things are happening, and yet God is going to say, I'm going to redeem them. So every bad thing that happens to you will only make your eventual glory greater, your eventual joy greater. the resurrection can redeem your scars now. Maybe someday we'll all have our scars and we can look at them and realize to what degree it made the glory and joy of God eventually greater than ever. I don't understand quite how that works, but you can see it here. I enjoy God better for the bad things that have happened to me, don't you? Don't you actually look at things that are really bad that you've actually done that you never should have done and yet if it wasn't for them, You wouldn't have much of the wisdom you have, much of the joy you have. You wouldn't have it, right? You wouldn't be able to help the people you help. How does that work? Because God's resurrected power is going to triumph over all of the evil and all of the sin so much that even the bad things you've done and even the bad things that are happening to you will be somehow taken up in it and it will make the eventual glory greater.

So what in the world are you afraid of? And how dare you hang your head? don't give up, get heroic. How will we escape if we neglect so great a salvation? Let's pray. Thank you, Father, for giving us the resurrection. Easter is, oh, what a day. And it always reminds us that everything is going to be all right. Everything is going to be all right. And we pray that you would grant this for us, that we would have this hope in our lives and we would live lives as we ought. and we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
