The scripture reading this morning is taken from the book of Acts chapter 13 verses 26 through 31 and verses 38 through 39. Fellow children of Abraham and you God-fearing Gentiles, it is to us that this message of salvation has been sent. The people of Jerusalem and their rulers did not recognize Jesus. Yet in condemning him, they fulfilled the words of the prophets that are read every Sabbath. Though they found no proper ground for a death sentence, they asked Pilate to have him executed. When they had carried out all that was written about him, they took him down from the cross and laid him in a tomb. But God raised him from the dead. And for many days, he was seen by those who had traveled with him from Galilee to Jerusalem. They are now his witnesses to our people. Therefore, my friends, I want you to know that through Jesus, the forgiveness of sins is proclaimed to you. Through him, everyone who believes is set free from every sin, a justification you were not able to obtain under the law of Moses. The word of the Lord. Thanks be to God.

The book of Acts is about the earliest history of Christianity. This text is a snatch of the very first recorded sermon that St. Paul ever preached, here in Acts chapter 13. It's actually a lengthy address, and though we only read a part of it, it's dominated by the subject of the resurrection. At the bottom of the first paragraph, he says, God raised Jesus from the dead. In verse 32, he says, we tell you the good news, what God promised our ancestors he has fulfilled for us by raising up Jesus. As it is written in the second Psalm, you are my son that I have become your father. So God raised him from the dead so that he will never be subject to decay. Over and over again, Paul talks about the resurrection. The very first time he gets a chance to speak and preach, it's about the resurrection. And I think it's important for us to look at this because what we're seeing here is how the resurrection was preached and believed in the very earliest church.

The resurrection was preached and believed in two ways. It was preached as a fact and as fulfillment. In verse 30, God raised him from the dead. In verse 31, there are witnesses to that fact. In verse 32, we tell you the good news, what God promised our ancestors, he has fulfilled to us by raising Jesus from the dead. Fact and fulfillment. Let's look at these two. First, the resurrection was preached, was believed, and should be believed as a fact. In verse 30, he not only says God raised him from the dead, he goes on and says he was seen by those who had traveled with him from Galilee to Jerusalem. They are now his witnesses.

Paul was not saying the early church looked at the resurrection as simply a wonderful symbol. That somehow, even in New York City, spring follows winter and there's always hope. It wasn't just a symbol. It was preached as a hard, bare, terribly inconvenient, paradigm-shattering, but impossible to dismiss fact. You know something about facts, right? They're incredibly irritating. I don't want to believe that. I don't like that. But there it is, a fact, so I've got to believe it. By preaching the resurrection as a fact, Paul was actually recounting his entire life. There's no greater example of this point than Paul himself. Paul hated Christianity. He found it outrageous. Christians said there was no need for a temple. That meant there was no need for atonement, sacrifices for sin. Outrageous. It was terrible. He was offended by Christianity and Christian beliefs. And then he saw the risen Christ. He realized Jesus was raised from the dead. It didn't matter what his likes and dislikes were, his convictions. He had to believe it because it was a fact. Very inconvenient, very irritating.

Paul wasn't the only one. Historians tell us it is astounding that Christianity got off the ground with first century Jews. Here are two reasons why. First, first century Jews were the last people in the whole world to believe that a human being could be God. The Greeks, the Romans, almost everybody else had beliefs about God and human nature that allowed gods to take human form. Not the Jews. They didn't believe that. They thought it was ridiculous to say such a thing. It was outrageous. Second, some Jews did believe that at the end of time there would be a resurrection when the world was changed. But nobody believed, nobody even conceived of the idea of a resurrection now

when the rest of the world hadn't changed at all. The idea of a resurrection now, not a resuscitated body, but a new body, a transformed body that can go through doors but at the same time can eat a fish. Historians tell you the doctrine of the resurrection was something that everything about the worldview of first century Jews would reject. Our worldview, the modern worldview, is skeptical about miracles, different from the first century Jewish worldview, which did accept miracles. But we must keep this in mind: we find the resurrection hard to believe because of our worldview. They found the resurrection just as hard to believe for different reasons, but because of their worldview. So here's the question: What kind of evidence would you need here in New York City to blow away all of your doubts and convince you that the resurrection really happened? It would be pretty heavy. Well, the first century Jews must have gotten evidence just as strong because they were just as skeptical. Paul was just as skeptical, but then he saw that Jesus was resurrected. He had to take it as a fact. It didn't matter that he found the rest of Christianity outrageous. He had to deal with it. Christianity is the most irritating of all religions I know, and I've looked at them all. You know why?

Religions, systems of thought, worldviews have various teachings in them. They say, we believe this, we believe that. Well, how do you decide whether you're going to believe that yourself? You decide whether you like it, whether it makes sense, whether it appeals to you. But here in New York City, when somebody says to me, I could never be a Christian, I always ask, why? And ninety-nine percent of the time they say, because I don't like this part of what the Bible says. I reject that. I find it offensive. That's why I could never be a Christian. And I say, Oh, so you're saying because you don't like that, that Jesus Christ could not have been raised from the dead? And almost always people say, well, I don't mean that. I say, okay, well, look at Paul. Paul was more offended by Christianity than you are. Paul killed Christians, and we don't advise that.

But he didn't decide Christianity was true because he liked it or because this and that made sense. He looked at the fact that Jesus Christ was raised from the dead. If you say, well, because I don't like Christianity, I don't like this teaching, I find this part offensive, therefore I'm not going to do a sustained reflection on how the early church started, on the evidence of the resurrection and the narratives about Jesus-that has no intellectual integrity. Don't you need a religion that is not just a projection of your desires? If you have a religion or faith that's just a projection of what you already believe, how will that ever make you better than what you are if it's just you? Christianity teaches that the resurrection is a fact. But secondly, the resurrection was preached as fulfillment, not just as a fact. Paul says, the promise to our ancestors has been fulfilled to us through the resurrection of Jesus Christ. What were those promises? They were promises about the future. The promises of the Hebrew scriptures were that the future of the world is not one of darkness, but of light and brightness and glory.

One of the questions that has to be asked is how Christianity triumphed in the Roman Empire. The Greek philosophers are brilliant-Aristotle, Plato, and others. You can't believe how thoughtful they were and how they worked things out. Yet within two or three centuries, Christianity completely supplanted Greco-Roman classical culture in the Western world. Christian ethics and Christian beliefs completely replaced

How did that happen? By many historians, especially non-Christian historians I've been reading recently, the answer is the doctrine of the resurrection. The doctrine of the resurrection was like nothing the world had ever seen. It was based in many ways on the Old Testament, and yet it wasn't what the Jews were expecting. It's certainly not what the Greeks and Romans expected. It wasn't anything in Eastern thought. It was unique. And one of the reasons why Christianity became so appealing to the populace is because the resurrection fulfills our longings for the future better than anything else that's ever been proposed.

The resurrection proves that the future is there, is personal, is certain, and is unimaginably wonderful. Let me go through those.

First, the resurrection of Jesus Christ proves that the future is there. Epicurus, the founder of the Epicureans, a Greek philosopher, taught that when you die, that's the end. There's no existence. You don't exist in any form at all. Therefore, he says, we shouldn't be afraid because when you die, you're not there. You don't know anything. That's it. Not all the Greeks felt that way. The popular belief was that there was an afterworld, a kind of afterlife, a netherworld, an underworld. But nobody was quite sure what it was like there. Most people didn't think it was as good as this life, but maybe it was better. The Sadducees, part of the Jewish faith, didn't think there was any afterlife either. But here comes the resurrection. If you look at these witnesses and saw their changed life and heard the credibility of their testimony and said, I believe in the resurrection, you know what that meant? Now you know you've got a future. The future is not darkness. You've got a future. You're not just dust in the wind. Resurrection means you've got a future.

But secondly, the doctrine of the resurrection told us that future was not just there, but it was personal.

Epicurus said that when you die, nothing to be afraid of because you're not there-non-existence. But the Greek philosophers like the Stoics believed like Eastern people-Hindus and Buddhists-that when you die, you don't stop, you go into the soul of the world. You're like a drop of water going into the ocean. You lose your individuality. You're no longer a person, but you continue on as part of the world, as part of the universe. That idea comes across in the Lion King, where you become part of the world, part of the soil, and out of the soil, people eat food and the circle goes on. Many religions and people say that when you die, you don't stop existing, but you become part of the world in this way. You're not a person. You don't have your individual personality anymore.

But here's the problem. When Epicurus says you don't have to be afraid of death because you don't know anything, you get non-existence. Or when others say you don't have to be afraid of death because you continue, but you have an impersonal existence, a non-personal existing future means there's no love. To have love, you've got to be a person. The main thing that makes people happy in this life is love. The deepest desire of the human heart is that we have loving relationships and that we not lose them. When somebody says, oh, you don't have to be afraid of death because when you die, you just don't exist, I say, that's rubbish. Why? Because the one thing that makes life meaningful is love. And you're telling me that's gone forever. When I die, no more love. Why wouldn't I be afraid of that? You should be afraid of that. If the one thing that makes your life meaningful is taken away from you forever, and you're not afraid of that, you're not being honest.

But the resurrection-the doctrine of the resurrection that Jesus was raised from the dead and those who believe in him will be raised from the dead too and we will get our bodies-it means you'll still be you. You'll have your spirit, you'll have your body, you'll still be you. And you will be with people who are still them. Therefore, the resurrection promised love without parting and a personal future.

So the resurrection promises that the future is there. Number two, that the future is personal. Number three, that the future is certain. What good does it matter to say there's this wonderful future out there if you're not sure you're going to be part of it? The main burden of Paul's point here is this. When he says the people of Jerusalem and their rulers did not recognize Jesus, though they found no proper ground for a death sentence, they asked him to be executed, he's not just trying to make the leaders in Jerusalem look bad. He's saying that Jesus Christ died, but he didn't die for his own sins. And then in verse 38, it says, therefore, my friends, I want you to know that through Jesus, the forgiveness of sins is proclaimed to you.

through him everyone who believes is set free from every sin and justification you were not able to obtain under the law of Moses. What he's trying to say is, if Jesus didn't die for his own sin and the resurrection proves that God vindicated him, then why did he die? Who did he die for? The answer is he died for you and me and the resurrection is a proof of that.

Let me show you how this works. If you go into a department store and buy something, you put it in a bag and you always want a receipt because if somebody stops you, you'll never have to pay for it again. You can say, oh plainclothes security, trouble me not for I have a receipt. It has been paid for. I never have to pay for this again. I am free.

We've done things in our lives and a lot of them are hard to forget. We feel like nobody will ever be able to forget them. We don't feel good about ourselves. Martin Luther said that if you're suffering or facing death and you're not absolutely sure that God is for you, absolutely sure that God accepts you, absolutely sure that all your sins have been paid for and that you're going to be with him, then the knowledge of a bright future-if you're not certain it's for you-is of no consolation.

But the resurrection is the greatest receipt in the history of the world. It's stamping across history in a way that everybody can read that your sins have been paid for. Jesus Christ's resurrection means that the payment worked. If the penalty for a crime is ten years in jail, when you walk out of jail, that means it's been paid for. Our penalty was death. When Jesus walked out of death, it meant it was paid for.

So the resurrection means our future is there. It means it's personal. It means it's certain. But lastly, it's unimaginably wonderful.

Do you know the Edgar Allan Poe poem The Raven? A lot of you say you read that in high school but don't remember anything except one word, and that's the only word you need to know. It's a dark poem about a man who's just lost his love. He's broken up with a woman named Lenore. A huge raven perches on the bust over his door and keeps saying one word over and over again: Nevermore. Edgar Allan Poe is capturing with frightening dark pithiness the seeming irreversibility of life. Over and over, no matter what the question is, the raven keeps saying, nevermore.

When you're young, the cross means a lot because you've done so many stupid things in your life and you feel like, how am I ever going to be cleansed? Payment for sin, great. But as life goes on, the resurrection becomes pretty important because that future is rushing up to meet you. When your youth is gone, it feels irreversible. Nevermore. When your health is gone, it feels irreversible. Nevermore. When people die-my father just died recently, as many of you know-it feels irreversible. Nevermore. Everything is going. You never get it back. It's irreversible. The seeming irreversibility of life is like death in the midst of life. But the resurrection says no to nevermore.

Even a religion that promises heaven, that promises your soul will continue in bliss, only gives you a consolation for what you've lost. But the resurrection is the restoration of what you've lost. In the resurrection you get it back. You get your body back. You get the body you always wanted and never had. You can hug. You can embrace. You can dance. You can sing. You get your life back. Not just your life back, but the life you always wanted and never had. You're a body. You're not just a soul. You get this world back, renewed and perfect. It's the reversal of irreversibility. It says no to nevermore. It's unimaginably wonderful. No other religion promises anything like this.

If you don't want to believe in the resurrection of Jesus Christ, I don't think you've thought it out. If you do believe it, but it's not real to you, which is where most of us are, we believe it up here, but because of our failure to read the word of God, to pray, to be in community, to attend to worship, because of a failure to use what's called the means of grace-we believe it up here, but it's not a living, bright reality to us. Why don't you want to believe it more?

The resurrection, fact and fulfillment. Let's pray. Our Father, we ask that you would help us not only take this fact but put it in the middle of our lives so it becomes an existential reality because it is the fulfillment of all of our deepest longings. And we ask that you would make us a community of people who live the resurrected life. We find ourselves growing more and more into Christ-likeness, laying aside our sin and our brokenness and dying more and more to sin and living more and more into righteousness. But we pray that you'd show us how, in a very broken world, through our service to others, to show the world the meaning of the resurrection as well. We particularly pray that in this new church downtown, this new congregation, that you'd help us to really be a resurrection community. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.