Would you turn with me to John chapter 20, and I'm going to read you from verses 3 to 23. John chapter 20, verses 3 through 23. So Peter and the other disciples started for the tomb. Both were running, but the other disciple outran Peter and reached the tomb first. He bent over and looked up at the strips of linen there but did not go in. Then Simon Peter, who was behind him, arrived and went into the tomb. He saw the strips of linen lying there as well as the burial cloth that had been around Jesus' head. The cloth was folded up by itself, separate from the linen. Finally, the other disciple, who had reached the tomb first, also went inside. He saw and believed. They did not understand the scripture that Jesus should rise from the dead. Then the disciples went to their tomes, but Mary side of the tomb crying, and as she wept, she bent over to look into the tomb and saw two angels in white seated where Jesus' body had been, one at the head and the other at the foot. They asked her, woman, why are you crying? They have taken my Lord away, she said, and I don't know where they have put him. At this, she turned around and saw Jesus standing there. Woman, he said, why are you crying? crying, who is it you are looking for? But she did not realize that it was Jesus. Thinking he was the gardener, she said, sir, if you have carried him away, tell me where you have put him and I will get him. Jesus said to her, Mary. She turned toward him and cried out in Aramaic, Rabboni, which means teacher. Jesus said, do not hold on to me, for I have not yet returned to the father. Go instead to my brothers and tell them I am returning to my father and your father, to my God and your God. Mary Magdalene went to the disciples with the news. I have seen the Lord, and she told them what he had said. On the evening of that first day of the week, when the disciples were together, with the doors locked for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood among them and said, Peace be with you. After he said this, he showed them his hands and sighed. The disciples were overjoyed when they saw the Lord. And again, Jesus said, peace be with you. As the Father sent me, I am sending you. And with that, he breathed on them and said, receive the Holy Spirit. If you forgive anyone his sins, they are forgiven. If you don't forgive them, they are not forgiven. And this is God's word. The last time Jesus Christ saw the disciples, their tail was between their legs. They were denying him. They were deserting him. So what's the first thing he says? I've never been, I've never gotten over this. Why doesn't he say to Mary, go tell those deserters who would not stay awake with me for 60 minutes in my moment of greatest need, who would not stand by me in my hour of greatest danger. Go tell those miserable deserters to get here and they better repent. They better have something mighty good to say. Instead, he says to her, go tell my brothers. My brothers. And when he shows up, when he appears to them, there is not a word of rebuke on his lips. It's amazing. He surely knew that they'd been doing enough rebuking of their own hearts inside. Instead, he says, receive, receive. comes, in a sense, with his arms full of gifts. Why? Why is he there with all these great things? He gives them peace. He gives them power. We're going to look at all these gifts. It's because he's a conquering king. Now, in those days, whenever a king conquered, whenever they came back, they always had gifts. They had lots of booty. They had the spoils of war. That's why it says in Psalm 56, and Paul re-quotes that in Ephesians 4. It says, when he led captivity captive, And he ascended on high, he gave us gifts. That's the way kings did. But in this case, Jesus has overcome death. And therefore, the gifts he has are peculiar to his victory. You see, what Jesus has done is he has gone into the maw of death. He's gone down the throat of death, into its stomach, in a sense. And death tried to grind him up as it has everyone else. The Bible says that the purity of his life and the power and force of his being was such that death could not hold on to him. And in a sense, he punched a hole. He just came out of the entrails of death. He punched a hole in the belly of it. And now he says, if you believe in me and death swallows you and I'm your Savior, you can come out the same way death will not be able to hold on to you'll be able to follow me right out the hole that I have created you see the Bible says that in Hebrews 2 that all human beings are subject to a lifelong bondage through the fear of death there's a lot of different psychologists that deal with that and so on but if the Bible says that, it's true that all human beings at one level or another are in bondage through a fear of death. Put it another way, if you don't know what's going to happen to you when you die, that creates a profound base note of desperation and anxiety that is an undercurrent that is always there. Now, as a minister, I've watched a lot of people die. I've watched people watch people die. I've watched people deal with death at funerals in front of the casket and so on. And you see, it's at those times what's always implicit, that implicit desperation gets explicit. Death robs you. First of all, it robs you of meaning and purpose. In the face of death, I see what people say. They say, what? All this that I'm doing, all this that I'm working for, what does it all mean? What's it all going to come to in the end? This. It robs you of direction and meaning. And secondly, it robs you of relationships. Because death pulls one after another, after another, after another of your loved ones away, and if you're one of the lucky ones that lives a long time, you're all alone. Death robs you of intimacy. Death robs you of meaning. And even though most of the time, it's not explicit, it's implicit, it's a deep undercurrent. You know what it would be like? Bass notes are more felt than heard, right? And to have the wrong bass line attached to it, you know, to take a bass line from one piece and attach it to the melody and harmony of another other piece, creates dissonance. In most of us, this bondage to the fear of the lost sleeps deep, it's not conscious. Most of us are not Woody Allen, who go around totally conscious that they're afraid of death all the time, and he makes a lot of money out of it. Most of us, though, laugh at that because what's conscious for Woody Allen is unconscious, but there for us. Jesus says, until you know what's going to happen to you on the other side of death until you are related to me so you can be sure that you are completely out from under the bondage of death. You are not free from that desperation. But because I have done what I've done, death, where is thy sting? Grave, where is thy victory? I come bringing death-breaking gifts, things that I put into your hands right now that are the direct result of my victory over death. They're the booty of the conquering king over death. And every one of the gifts that he gives is a direct result of knowing that you no longer have to be afraid of the sting of death or the grave. Now, the gifts are several, and here's how they go. The first gift, and it's the one that I don't have to talk about too long, because we've talked about it all last Sunday, is the gift of faith. It's the first gift that the risen Christ gives. I didn't read the verse, at the end of chapter 20, John says, verse 30, Jesus did many other miraculous signs in the presence of his disciples, which I didn't record, but I wrote these that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the son of the living God, and that by believing, you may have life in his name. Now you see, there it is. You see, life comes from what? All of these death-defeating, death-breaking gifts, the power, the intimacy, the meaning, all the things that we're going to talk about here in a second, they all come from believing. The gift before all the gifts, the gift which is the basis for all of the gifts is belief. You have to believe. That's how you unite to the risen Christ. And by uniting to the risen Christ, you get all these other things. Now, there's no need to go on any further except just this. I found in talking to people last week that some folks misunderstand still what it means when they hear me say, when they hear the Bible say that faith is a gift. It's not something you can work up on your own. It's a gift. Some people say, well, of course it's a gift. In other words, some people, most people don't have faith. Most normal people can't believe strongly in God and angels and all that kind of thing. There's a few, mostly ministers, who really believe that stuff. But most people need proof. Most people are more concrete than that. Of course, there's some people that have faith. And some people who don't. You know, that's the way it is. It's like opera. Most normal people don't like opera. But there's always a minority of people. Who will put down good money. To listen to two people singing. Standing stock still for 45 minutes. Singing in German to each other. I mean, that's. You know, some people. That's entertainment. Most people. It's not. And therefore. You know. Some people like opera. Some people are left-handed. Some people have faith. It's a gift. That's not what I mean. First of all, do not believe for a minute that faith is something that only some people exercise. You know, in the last 30 years, the philosophers who are working in the area of epistemology, how you know things, are almost coming to consensus and finally coming around to something the Bible taught all along. There is no way to know anything without faith. Look, imagine you have, you've got to hire somebody. You're in charge of hiring someone for your office. And you've got a bunch of applicants. Now how are you going to decide and know who the right one is? Here's how you do it. First stage is you go to authority sources. You go to references. You go to friends. You go to the psychological test. Those are authority sources. And out of the authority sources, you get the evidence. First step. The second step, you get convinced that one of these people is the best one. You look at the evidence. You know, we have evidence because people that score like this on the psychology tests are usually better at this job. And these people who have given you references very seldom have ever steered you wrong. And so you start with authority and evidence. And then secondly, you come to a rationally convinced mind. You say, she's the one. She's the one. But reason, empirical investigation, any scientist will tell you this, can never, ever, ever get you except to probability. You can't know that she's the right one simply by studying the data and studying the evidence. You get the evidence. You come to a rational conclusion. Your mind is convinced. But it's only probable. How will you know she's the right one? You've got to commit. You've got to trust. You've got to have faith. You've got to step out and become vulnerable by hiring her when you're still not sure because reason can never take you to probability. You commit. faith, you trust, you get yourself vulnerable, and if she works out, then you know she's the right one. But don't you see the order? Evidence brings you to rational probability, brings you to the place of commitment and vulnerability, and then only then can you get to certainty. Authority, rationality, vulnerability, certainty. Put it another way, you can reason yourself to tentativity. you reason yourself to tentativity it's a new word by the way tentatively then you have to trust into vulnerability if you're ever going to know into certainty now a lot of us perfectionists have had a miserable life because we hate that faith process which is the only way to know anything we want to know before we commit but you can't know until admit. We don't want to be vulnerable till we know, but you can't know till you're vulnerable. Reason can take you to probability. Only faith can take you to certainty. You see that? Authority, rationality, and vulnerability before certainty. And a lot of us hate it. A lot of us, it's the reason why our lives have been messed up. Because we hate the fact that the philosophers are coming to see, and that is, there is no epistemology without faith. There is no knowing without faith. probability. Well, now somebody says, all right, that's an interesting point. I never thought of it like that. There's no knowing without faith. So we all have to have faith. Okay. Well, then why do you say faith in Christ is a gift if we've all got faith? And here's the reason why. Because the higher and greater the object of faith, the more radical the vulnerability in order to know that object. To know a chair is safe, you have to trust yourself to the chair. But what's at stake is considerably less than to know whether I should hire this woman in my office, because then my productivity is at stake. See, to know that she's the right one means I have to become much more vulnerable to know it. To know that this chair will hold me up, I have to become much more vulnerable to know it. But much less vulnerable. Than. Then. Then. Then. Then. a false decision will affect you for eternity everybody in this room has to agree with that well how am I going to know the only way to know an absolute being is to make an absolute commitment the only way to know for a certainty an absolute being would be to become absolutely vulnerable and we are incapable of that the faith process breaks down because what we all want to know is, how can I be sure that this one is the Christ without me having to exercise faith? I want to know before I commit, but you can't know until you commit. I don't want to be vulnerable. The reason that it's an impossibility is the Bible says there's two layers to everybody's soul. The first layer God put down there, and the second layer we put down there. The first layer. God made us for himself. That means we have a yearning for him. A need to worship him. We were built for him. We were built to serve him and to worship him. He made us originally to walk with him in the cool of the garden. And our soul is made for him. Like the bee is made for the flower. Like the moth for the flame. Like the hungry famished stomach for food, like a beached fish for water. And we want him. But the Bible tells us also, we took our wonderful, rational, powerful, personal soul and our ability to choose, and we decided to be our own masters. And therefore, because we want to be our own masters, we want control. And we don't like it when we get near the claims of God who says, you must, if you want to know yourself, you've got to serve me totally. And that means, you see, We say, I know that I need something. I've got an infinite hole in me. So deep that only the infinite can fill it. But how do I know God without losing control? And the answer is, you can't. You can't sit on that chair without losing some control. Certainly you can't get married without losing control. But you can't know God, the absolute, without becoming absolutely vulnerable. You're incapable of that. And therefore, you have to go to Jesus and say, say, I can't let go. Even though I know I need to. You've got to help me. You've got to give me the gift of faith. I'm so tired. I know I need to give myself to you. I know I need it. I want to believe but I can't. And we said last week that's the beginning of belief. You can't have faith until you admit you don't have faith and you ask Him for faith. And that's faith. That's the first of it. That's the beginning. Don't you see? The first gift is the gift of faith. faith. We all use faith, but when it comes to having belief in Christ, our ability breaks down, and we have to get that ability, that openness of heart from him. Then, here's what all the gifts are as they come. They just come streaming out. Two I's and two P's. We get intimacy, and we get purpose. We get identity, and we get power. Let me just run them through. I mean, I hate to go so fast, but we're counting money here, and you want to at least touch every one of the bills. Look, intimacy. Jesus says a very odd thing to Mary. Mary grabs hold of him and he says, Don't touch me. Don't hold on to me, for I have not yet ascended to my Father. Now, what does that mean? Now, when I first wrote, for the first five or six years of my life, I thought that meant Jesus was saying, I'm like Mount Sinai. I'm holy. Don't touch me or you're going to fritz or something. You'll get electrocuted. I didn't know what it meant. The problem is, later on, he talks to Thomas and he says to Thomas, Touch me. Does he have it in for Thomas? Does he want Thomas to touch him and then he gets all these bolts through him or something? Of course not. Not only that, but Matthew 28 tells us that when there were some women that found Jesus in the garden and they grabbed hold of his feet and they worshiped him. So it can't be that there's something physically illegal about what Mary's doing, but instead he must be saying that Mary is doing something wrong. And I think this is what he's saying. The word hold or touch actually means to cling. And Mary has started to cling to him. And Jesus is seeing what Mary's after. Mary is saying, in a sense, I'm never going to lose you again. I've got you. I'm not going to ever let go. And what Jesus is saying is, Mary, you don't understand. Here's what this cryptic statement means. He says, says, don't hold on to me until I ascend to the Father, which means once I ascend, then you can hold on to me. He's saying, look, I'm not raised from the dead like Lazarus back to my old life. I have been raised into a new dimension. I will be available for you to grab hold of and to personally touch even when I'm not physically present. You have to understand that. that. Our relationship is different. I'm going to be the ascended, risen Savior. I will be spiritually present all over the place, and you won't just have to have me physically present and to grab me. You'll be able to hold me. You'll be able to embrace me. Now, I have to move on. Remember, we're just counting money, but let me just remind you of something. Let me ask you several questions. The risen Christ is someone who you're supposed to hold. The risen Christ is someone you're supposed to know. It's not enough. Paul says in 2 Corinthians 5, somewhere, 16, I think it is. He says, for once we knew Jesus Christ after the flesh, but henceforth we know him no more. I'm afraid that some of you, like Mary, feel like, well, if I had him physically in front of me, I could touch him. I could relate to him. But I only know him as a historic figure. gear. No. If you're a Christian, Jesus says, you can personally relate to me now. So let me ask you a couple of searing questions. When you pray, do you make personal contact with him or do you just say your prayers? Do you hold him? Paul talks about the love of Christ being shed in our hearts. Have you ever felt that? Let me put it another way. When you pray, do you sense that he's present, helping you, that your thoughts begin to get big and clear and comforting and energizing about him. His mercy isn't an abstraction, but it becomes real. And his power and his glory and his grace and his love. And it changes you and it stays with you that day. And when you begin to pray, your burdens come off. You're not just saying your prayers. You're talking to somebody. You're making contact with somebody. You're holding on to someone. Is that happening to you? Now, Now here's what I'm going to say. If you're a Christian. You can never say that all the time. Because our hearts are clouded by sin. And very often he's not real to us. But if you're a Christian. You know what I'm talking about. And if you don't know. If you say. I have never had an experience like that. I don't know what in the world. You're talking about. You have not yet met. The risen Christ. He is available. To be grabbed. Well. Let me ascend. Then. You can cling. To me. Let me ascend. Then. You can grab. Hold. Of me. I'll grab hold of you. Dwight Moody, the great 19th century preacher, was walking down Wall Street once, and he said suddenly he got so overwhelmed with the glory of God and the love of God, it started pouring out into his heart, he had to ask God to stop. He's afraid to be overwhelmed. Look, I know there's differences of temperament, and I know there's differences of seasons, and I know that's not something all the time that all Christians get, but do you know what he's talking about at all. If you've met the risen Christ, you know what it means to grab him and to have him grab you. Then purpose, purpose. You notice as soon as Jesus meets Mary, he says, Mary, he gives her his name. He gives her a name. I'll talk about that in a second. But then he immediately says, go and tell. When he appears to his disciples, notice he appears his disciples, and they're overjoyed. And he says, peace. And then what does he say? As the father sends me, I send you. And we've, those of you who are here in March, when we were going through the missions conference, you see here the same pattern throughout the scripture. God meets Abraham. He says, I'm going to bless you, but I'm going to make you a blessing. He meets Isaiah and he gives Isaiah forgiveness for the first time by putting a coal from the altar onto his lips and immediately says, go and preach. Jesus never, ever, ever meets somebody by faith without getting that person's eyes turned away from their own navel pretty quickly. Are you coming to Jesus? Are you approaching Jesus because you want healing and help and warmth and acceptance? You want your needs met? Good. This is the place. Anything you want is in the arms of the risen Savior. But if you've really met the real risen Christ, there will be a sentness about you. You will find that you are not able to keep your mind constantly on your own problems. You're going to be looking out at other people and the needs of other people. Jesus says, look, I'm a good physician. I will give you all the love you need, but I will not have self-pity in my people. There's work to be done. There's people out there. You cannot just sit and contemplate your own navel. You've got to look at other people and what their problems are. Go and tell. So I send you. Be a blessing. He never calls you in to heal you without sending you out to be a healer. Never. And that's what we all need. We need mission in life. There is nothing more, there is no greater blessedness than the blessedness of getting your mind off yourself. Thirdly, intimacy, mission, and then identity. He says, Mary, look, how do you know who you are? The Bible says that many places you find yourself by not trying to find yourself, but by trying to find the risen Christ. Identity, finding your name, knowing who you are, is never something you can approach directly, ever. It doesn't say, Blessed is he who hungers and thirsts after blessedness. It says, Blessed is he who hungers and thirsts after something besides blessedness. Righteousness. That's one of the things that I like to say at least once a month here. Except I'm behind. I probably haven't said it in two months. You must lose yourself to find yourself. He who wants to find himself will lose himself. Jesus says. And here is another perfect example. Mary. Finds herself. By not trying to find herself. In fact, Mary is a great example. You know why? Mary's trying to find Jesus, and she's doing everything wrong. She's making every mistake in the book. She thinks he's dead. She's trying to find a dead Jesus when he's alive. She thinks that the gardener is the enemy when it's actually the friend that she's been looking for. She talks to angels, and she doesn't get it. You know, a lot of us say, I wish I could get a good therapist. She's talking to angels, and she still doesn't get it. She's doing everything wrong. one thing right and it's all she needs. She's just after Jesus. She wants Jesus. She's looking for Jesus. And she won't be satisfied until she finds Him. it's clear it doesn't take smarts to find Jesus because she didn't have it that day. It certainly doesn't take a cool head because she didn't have it. It doesn't take a great record because Mary was a prostitute and she'd been possessed by seven demons. It doesn't take a good record. What does it take? She was just looking for Him with tears and she wouldn't give up. and then what does she get? Jesus says to her, Mary,

there's the desire of the ages. My name on the lips of the divine one. Mary. Friends, no one can name themselves. I sincerely believe, and the Bible truly teaches, that everybody gets their identity from the outside. Somebody has to validate them. Somebody has to say, you're okay. I see who you are. We try to get our careers to name us. We try to get money to name us. You got the song, You're Nobody Till Somebody Loves You. So we try to get a name from somebody to love me. The trouble is, you're nobody till somebody loves you. That means the person who loves you is a nobody trying to get a somebody to love them. but if two nobodies are trying to get together trying to create a somebody that means you're using each other you're trying to get you're trying to get validation for each other you're not really loving each other you're using each other. Wait a minute how do we get out of this? How do we find somebody who can say I know you and I love you who's a real somebody. Not a nobody trying to become a somebody. buddy. In The Fisher King, that movie, Robin Williams plays a homeless man. And he's a homeless man and he's in love with a dull little wallflower lady who comes out at lunch every day of the Metropolitan Life Building down on, you know, Madison. And every day she comes out and he watches. Of course, she never sees him watching. He's a homeless man and he's in love with her. And he gets a friend, Jeff Bridges, to wash him up and to clean him up and get a date with her. And of course, he's a homeless person. Slightly deranged. But they start to get along. But at her apartment. At the steps. She says, you'll probably never call me again. Will you? And he looks at her and says. I've got a confession to make. I have known you for a long time. I've watched you for a long time. I know that you hate your job. I know. That you're not coordinated. And you don't think you're coordinated. And you don't feel like you're very pretty. And you don't feel like you're very wonderful. I know. You're pretty lonely. I know you don't think you have any friends. I know you. And I've known you for a long time. And I love you. And I will be back. And I'll never leave you. And, you know, the actress is quite good. Because she is transformed at that minute. You know why? He's naming her. He's calling her by name. He's saying, I know you. And I love you. I know you to the bottom. So there's nothing else to hide. I've seen all the way to the bottom. And I love you. She's being named. She's being transformed. And yet, when I was watching her, I wanted to say to the character, don't let a human being have in his hand the secret to your identity because he's a human being. He inevitably will let you down. Oh, you've got to go to somebody who says, I will never forsake you. And he won't. There's only one somebody whose opinion matters. There's only one person who can truly authorize you. There's only one person who really knows you to the bottom. not just watches you on your way out the door to lunch every day. Somebody who knows you all the way. Somebody who's the only somebody. And somebody who says, I will never, never forsake you. I love you. Mary. Jesus doesn't say, come here, slave. Your first duty. Mary. I know you by name. I call you by name. John chapter 10, verse 3. My sheep know my voice. I call them by name and I lead them out. If you are a Christian, if you've met the risen Christ, you know what Annie Dillard meant when she wrote,

I'd been all my life a bell and I never knew it until I was picked up, lifted up, and rung. I'd been all my life a bell and I'd never known it until I was lifted up and struck. rang. What a glorious song. I had no idea I was capable of it. Do you know what that means? Do you know anything about that? If you haven't experienced the naming, the new identity you get because of the new intimacy you have and because of the new mission and purpose you have, you have not met the risen Christ. Well, lastly, just very, very brief, Jesus gives us power. He says, receive the Holy Spirit. And you know why he's got to say this? A thoughtful person will say, Hey, how can we get these gifts? How can I have faith when I'm not capable of losing control? How can I know him personally when he's not here physically? How can I be in mission when I'm self-absorbed? How can I sense this new identity when I don't feel like I'm worth anything? And what's the answer? Jesus says, I give you my power. I give you the Holy Spirit. My power will enable you. to have faith. My power will mediate the presence of the one who's not physically present, but you will hear him say, Mary, John, Stephen. My power will enable you to get out of yourself and give you gifts and impel you out of self-pity and out of self-absorption into service and into mission and into ministry. Jesus gives you power as the channel. See, faith, which is the basis of intimacy, and mission, which is the basis of a new identity, which is all energized by his power. There it is. Friends, listen. Listen carefully. Do you know this risen Christ? Not as a theorem, not as an abstraction. Do you know him? If his power is in your life, then there's movement. Power changes things. Have you seen yourself growing? Are you becoming like Christ? Are you more like Christ than you were last year. Is there a real concrete behavior change? Can you not only take criticism without being crushed better than last year, but you can give criticism without crushing better than last year? Is there a developing in you a humility without a bit of self-loathing or moroseness? On the other hand, is there also a developing at the same time a confidence and a poise and a boldness without the slightest grain of arrogance and swagger? If the power of Jesus Christ is in you, a kingdom. All these other gifts are growing. They're death-defying. They're the fruit of his victory over death. Don't forget this. Jesus says, not deserters. He says, brothers. And you know who a brother is? A brother is somebody who knows that you should be called a deserter. If you don't know you're a deserter, you're not a brother. Do you know that? Can you come and say, I have been living for myself. I don't know you except after the flesh. I want to know you personally. I want you to open me up. I want to grab hold of you. I want to be in mission. I want to hear your name, my name on your lips. Go to him. The risen Lord has everything you need in his arms. He says, receive, receive. Let's pray. Father, all I ask is during the offering now, during the music, I pray that everybody here in this room might be enabled to see that what they need today And I pray, Father, that you'd give every person here enough awareness to see that they need something that's in the hands of the risen King, your Son, our Savior. Enable them to reach out and take it, to receive it by faith. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen.