Tonight's scripture comes from the book of Matthew, chapter 17, verses 1 through 13. After six days Jesus took with him Peter, James, and John, the brother of James, and led them up a high mountain by themselves. There he was transfigured before them. His face shone like the sun, and his clothes became as white as the light. Just then there appeared before them Moses and Elijah talking with Jesus. Jesus Peter said to him, Lord, it is good for us to be here. If you wish, I will put up three shelters, one for you, one for Moses and one for Elijah. While he was still speaking, a bright cloud enveloped them and a voice from the cloud said, this is my son whom I love with him. I am well pleased. Listen to him. When the disciples heard this, they fell face down to the ground, terrified. But Jesus came and touched them. Get up, he said, don't be afraid. When they looked up, they saw no one except Jesus. As they were coming down the mountain, Jesus instructed them, don't tell anyone what you have seen until the Son of Man has been raised from the dead. The disciples asked him, why then do the teachers of the law say that Elijah must come first? first Jesus replied to be sure Elijah comes and will restore all things but I tell you Elijah has already come and they did not recognize him but have done to him everything they wished in the same way the son of man is going to suffer at their hands then the disciples understood that he was talking to them about John the Baptist this is the word of the Lord

In the weeks leading up to Easter, we're looking at the life of Jesus Christ and we're looking at the various episodes in his life, key episodes, getting to the place where on Easter Sunday, we'll be looking at the climax of his life, the resurrection. And here we come to a very famous and unique passage that's called the Transfiguration. There's nothing else like it in I'm not really sure there's anything else like it anywhere in ancient literature or any literature. And it's here to teach us, of course, or it wouldn't be in the Bible. What is it there to teach us about? It's here to teach us several things. I want you to keep in mind that Jesus' life is getting darker here. This passage, and I'm going to get to, I'll get back to this at the very end of the sermon. and as he's coming down the mountain, they ask him about the prophecy that there would be a second Elijah who would be the forerunner to the Messiah. What about him? And Jesus says, yes, John the Baptist is that second Elijah, and they killed him, and they're going to kill me. So you see, things are getting darker and darker, and yet for one second almost, on the mountain, a shutter The shutter opens and there's light, and then it goes back dark again. What is this here to tell us about? It's here to tell us who he really is, what he came to do, and how we should respond to him. Who he is, what he came to do, and how we should respond to him. First of all, this passage tells us who he is.

When God was leading the children of Israel out of slavery in Egypt, what form did he take?

of a glory cloud, a bright cloud. In the daytime, when the sun was out, it looked like a pillar, it sort of looked pretty much like a cloud, but it was bright. At night, when the sun was gone, it looked like a pillar of fire, and it went before the children of Israel. And it was such an overwhelming and powerful phenomenon that it destroyed the Egyptian army in the Red Sea. When it came down, when this glory cloud came down on Mount Sinai, the mountain literally shook. And there was a voice of God, and there was fire, and there were clouds. And anyone who touched the mountain died. And when Moses actually asked God to look inside, to get a glimpse on the inside of the cloud, God said to Moses, no, you can't look inside. you. Now, it's many years later, and what do we see? We're on a mountain again, right? We're on a mountain, and there's the voice of God again, verse 5. And there's Moses again in verse 3, and also Elijah, who also saw the glory of God on a mountain, 1 Kings 19. But most of all, as we can see here in verse 5, the glory cloud is here. But what's different? Oh, there's something incredibly different. The infinite glory of God, the incomparable glory of God. The brilliance is emanating from a person now, from Jesus Christ himself. Look, verse 2. It's verse 1. It says, verse 2, his face shone like the sun and his clothes became as white as self is what it actually says. That's astounding. The glory of God, the brilliance is coming from Jesus. Now, what does that mean? Oh, my word. You know, when Moses came off the mountain one time, Mount Sinai, his face continued to shine, but it was the reflected glory of what he'd seen, sort of like the moon. But here we're told Jesus is the sun. this is narratively where you say in story form it's depicting something that the book of Hebrews says propositionally indirectly because when Hebrews the first chapter of the book of Hebrews it says about Jesus he is the radiance of God's glory and the exact representation of his being the radiance of his glory Jesus is the radiance of his glory and the exact representation of God's being Jesus Christ is the unsurpassable expression of the overwhelming, infinite, shattering beauty,

importance, superlativeness, glory of God. Jesus is the glory cloud. Jesus is the radiance of God's glory in human form. The glory is in a human form, and he's the exact representation of his being, There is no other way to see the glory of God more perfectly and in any way surpasses what we see in Jesus Christ. I don't know how much more strong the Bible could be in getting across the idea that Jesus Christ is not like Moses and Elijah. He's not one more person pointing to God. He's not one more prophet pointing to God. He is the glorious God to whom Moses and Elijah and all the prophets pointed. that mean? And of course, it just means so much. And there's so many things I could say. Let me, as it were, just go down into one of the implications. If this is really true that Jesus is the glory of God, he doesn't just have it or point to it. He is the glory of God. He is the way you can see into the very heart of God. Then, what does that mean? I've been reading a book by a French philosopher, Luc Ferry, F-E-R-R-Y, and it's called A Brief History of Thought. And it's really quite a great book because it's in 250 pages, it's trying to give you a history of philosophy, Western philosophy. A chapter on the Greeks, a chapter on Christianity, a chapter on enlightenment and humanism, a chapter on postmodernism, a chapter and so on. When he gets to the transition from Greek and Roman philosophy to Christianity, he says incredibly interesting. He points out that Christianity completely supplanted Greek and Roman philosophy. You know, philosophy tries to give answers to the big questions. Christianity came along and gave answers to these same big questions, and it was so satisfying to the human race that it basically just dropped and completely overshadowed and supplanted Greek philosophy and Roman philosophy as brilliant as it was. How did that happen? Well, the author says this. The Greeks believed that at the heart of the universe was what they called the logos, L-O-G-O-S. In other words, they believed that the heart of the universe was ultimate reality and that if you were going to live an authentic life, you had to get your life aligned with, reality or with the logos, then you would be all that you were designed to be. And of course, now, that makes sense. You should get your life in line with the heart of the universe. But what is that heart? Well, the different philosophers didn't always agree on what that was, what the logos principle, what ultimate reality was. The Stoics, as you probably know, believed that the universe was this harmonious whole, this perfectly harmonious whole, and that everything that to happen was fine, and that therefore, even when you died, you stayed part of this harmonious whole, even though you became part of it in another form, fertilizer, for example. The Stoics actually did believe the Disney song Circle of Life. Everything's a circle of life. You die, you become fertilizer, and the animals eat the grass that comes out of you, and so on. And the Stoics actually said that means if you really want to have your life aligned with the heart of reality, the ultimate reality, you need to not really get too attached to anything. Don't love anything that much. Be a strong person. Duty mattered more than attachment or love or relationships. And that way you were in line with the nature of the universe. Now, the Stoics were only one group. The Epicureans we can relate to a little better. The Epicureans believed that the meaning of life was to have fun, was to be happy. And even today, what people will tell you is this. You need to figure out your passions. You need to figure out what your dreams are, your gifts. And you need to bring your life in line with that. You need to get in sync with that. What is it you really want? What are your real passions and your dreams? What is your capacity? You need to live for that. that. Everybody has always said, find ultimate reality, the most important thing, and bring your life into conformity to it, and then you will be everything you ought to be. What did Christians say? Now, what the philosopher, what the author, Luke Ferry, says is so astounding is this. He says, when Christians came along, they said, oh, we know what's at the heart of the universe, the ultimate reality. We know what the Logos principle is, and this is what Ferry says. He says, the Logos for the Greeks was the impersonal, harmonious, divine structure of the cosmos as a whole. But to the horror of the Greeks, the Christians maintain that the logos, in other words, the cosmic principle, was not the harmonious order of the world, but was a single unique personality, one outstanding individual, namely Jesus Christ. That's how the gospel of John starts. In the beginning, when you read it in English, says, was the word. But the Greek word that John uses deliberately is logos, because John knew Greek philosophy. And what he was saying is, ultimate reality, at the heart of the universe, is a person, not a principle, not something abstract. Luke Fowrie goes on and says, this was revolutionary. He says, if the heart of the universe was not impersonal force, like the Greeks believed and the Eastern religions believe, if the heart of the universe was not an impersonal

person. It meant an unprecedented emphasis on the idea and importance of love. See, many of the Greeks said, well, love isn't the important thing. But of course, if a person is at the heart of the universe, yes, it is. And Ferry goes on and says this, by resting its case upon a definition of the human person and an unprecedented idea of love, Christianity was to have an incalculable effect upon the history of ideas. To give one example, it is quite clear that without this Christian reevaluation of the human person, the philosophy of human rights to which we subscribe today would never have established itself. Do you hear that? Luke Ferry is a secular person, doesn't believe Christianity at all. But he says, when Christians came along and says the heart of the universe is a person, that meant that human persons were extremely important now, that they were important. And he says if Christianity hadn't come along and said that, The whole idea of human rights and human dignity never got started. He's right. But it's more than that. It's bigger than that. Christianity, this is how revolutionary it is. Christianity says that ultimate reality is not a principle. It's not an abstract principle that you have to contemplate where you have to sort of work hard to bring your life into conformity. It's a person. The heart of ultimate reality is a person that you can know, that you can love, that can love you.

that you can adore, that you can delight in, that you can experience his delight. It's a love relationship. And if you have that relationship, your life is in line with the universe. It's aligned with ultimate reality. It completely redefines salvation, completely redefines human life, everything. Because Jesus Christ is not just a nice guy or he's not just somebody who is sort of glorious or points to glory or points to God. is the glory of God, that means he is ultimate reality. The greatness of who he is, the transfiguration shows that. Now, it doesn't just show us that. It also shows us what he came to do. And believe it or not, some of you might be breathless and having a nosebleed right now, you know, from where I just took you, but it's something even greater than that. It tells us here what he came to do. How do we find that? Well, I've already said to you that Testament appeared when it came down on Mount Sinai or wherever. If anybody came into direct contact with it, it killed them. And when we read that, we modern people hear about that, we go, ooh, that creeps you out, does it not? It feels, why? And it either offends you or it certainly confuses you. But, no, let's think of it like this. If you're walking along in New York City and suddenly an elephant falls down upon you from the third or fourth floor. And by the way, this is New York. And those of you who are new to New York or just visiting here, this is not like the rest of the world where only rain and snow and hail falls on you. You have no idea. So anyway, if it was true that an elephant fell on you from three stories up, you would be dead. Why? You could say, I'm so offended by that idea. No, you shouldn't be offended. it's a physical law. The being of the elephant is too great for your being to bear.

It's just a law. If you were to look directly into the sun for a number of minutes without blinking, it would burn your eyes out. It would probably destroy your sight. Why? Because the luminosity, the brightness of the sun is too great. The being of the sun is too great for the being of your eyes to bear. And what we're being told here is that's true, of course, on a spiritual level. You can feel it too. When you think you're smart until you come into the presence of somebody who is so much smarter than you that you never ever will be as smart as that, and yet you thought of yourself as pretty smart, it's not an inspiring feeling. Years ago when I really wanted to be a good trumpet player when I was a teenager, I never forgot I was trying really hard to be good, had this instructor who gave me a book that said, if you can master the, if you can play all of the exercises in this book, you will be a good trumpet player. You will be. And I worked very hard at it. It was very hard, by the way. And one day, I remember he gave me a record, which probably is buried away somewhere in my things. And it was just nothing but a record of a master trumpet player, Rafael Mendes, playing, just perfectly playing all of the exercises, some of the exercises in the book. And I listened to it, and it was incredible. It was unbelievable. It was infinitely better than I would ever be able to play that, and I was not inspired. fired. I felt the trauma. I felt the trauma of an identity falling apart. And you see, why is it that when Isaiah gets into the presence, begins to get into the presence of God, in Isaiah 6, he says, woe is me, I am undone. He was a prophet, a holy man, yet he says, I am a man of unclean lips and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips. when Job gets into the presence of God, not really seeing his glory, but just he's in the whirlwind, he just gets close. Remember what he says? Job says, I heard of you with my ear, but now I see you with mine eye, and I despise myself and repent in dust and ashes. Anybody who gets anywhere close to the presence of God begins to feel the moral weight, because we're sinners, because we're flawed because we're finite and the infinity and the glory and the holiness of God. Our being can't bear his being. Simple as that. And yet we were built originally and created to see him and to know him and to see his beauty and glory. But we can't because of our sin, you see. And that's the reason why the tabernacle was built. God says, I want to dwell in the midst of my people, but I don't want to kill them. So what do they do? They build a tabernacle. The tabernacle was a tent, but it was a large tent, and in the center was a small tent, the Holy of Holies, in which the glory cloud dwelt. But it was safe. It was shielded because it was in there, It was behind a veil, and outside were all the outer courts, and there was the sacrifices, and the altars, and the priests doing all those things. What was the tabernacle for? It was defense against God. It was a shield against God. Now, after having… Why did I just spend that five minutes doing all that? You're not going to understand the amazing event unless you see that. First of all, why does Peter, in verse 4, when he begins to see the sun and the brilliance, And why does he say in verse 4, Lord, it is good for me to be here. If you wish, I will put up three shelters. And that's the word tabernacles.

I will put up three tabernacles, one for you, one for Moses, and one for Elijah. What was he doing? Why didn't he say, we're on a mountain. He doesn't say, we need shelter. Oh, no. He says, we need to build tabernacles around you. What does he do? He says, we need protection. protection. And then the very thing I think he was most afraid of happened. And if you know the Bible well, you'll realize that one of the most astounding statements is in verse 5 and 6. When he was still speaking, a bright cloud, there's the glory cloud, enveloped them. Oh, my. Remember, Moses said, God, can I just look inside the glory cloud? He says, no, it'll kill you. And now it's on them. It's around them. It enveloped them. Completely envelops them. And a voice comes out. We'll get to that in a minute. And that's why verse 6 says, one of the disciples, you know, this happened to them. They fell face down on the ground terrified. Of course they were terrified. They were sure they were going to die. And what happened? What happened? They didn't die.

Let me repeat that. They didn't die. Why not? not? That's what's so astounding about this. How could that be? Why not? Well, the answer is right there. When they opened their eyes, it's pretty clear. It's interesting. It's very clear that they actually probably had their eyes closed because when they opened up, all they saw was Jesus, and that's the answer. In Matthew chapter 27, verse 51, I hate to be telling you how the book of Matthew ends, but I have to. Because at the climax of the book of Matthew, when Jesus Christ died, died on the cross, it says, the veil in the temple, which of course is the permanent tabernacle, ripped from top to bottom. And there you have it. See, Jesus Christ, when he died on the cross was the ultimate sacrifice. He was the ultimate priest. He was the temple itself. He says in John chapter 2, puzzling everybody, he says, tear this temple down. In three days, I'll raise it up again. And he's referring to his body. How could Jesus Christ call himself the temple? And the answer is, he's the one, as it were, who shields you from the glory of God because through his sacrifice, he reconciles you. He pays for your sin so that now the very glory that used to be fatal to everybody can come into your life. That's why the Bible says you're now a temple of the Holy Spirit. It can come right into your life because of what Jesus Christ has done. And what did he do? You say he died on the cross. But more than that, he lost his glory. See, the whole point of the book is Jesus Christ was this glorious being, but Philippians 2 says He hid his glory, and the transfiguration is showing. Usually, Jesus lost his beauty. He lost his impressiveness. He lost his power. He lost his invulnerability. He was killable now.

Glory, the beauty, the power, the immensity, it's gone. It's hidden. It's set aside. side. It's not my favorite artwork, but it's back on Broadway now. It's Jesus Christ Superstar. I don't like every bit of it, but I do like the way it depicts Pilate's attitude toward Jesus. And when Pilate first sees Jesus, you know, brought to him in chains, he says, who is this broken man cluttering up my hallway? And then he says, oh, so this is Jesus Christ. I am really quite surprised. You look so small, not a king at all. And that's right.

So small, not a king at all. What does that mean? He lost his glory. Why did he lose his glory? Because John chapter 17, before he goes to the cross, he says, Father, I want to give them the glory that I had with you before the foundation of the earth.

He lost his beauty so that we could get it. He lost his perfection, his beauty, his glory, and all that stuff so that we could receive it. So they could come into our lives. So that God could purify us and someday make us beautiful. make us pure, make us glorious, make us perfect. He lost his glory so that we could get it. And that's the reason why. Just look up and see Jesus. And that's the reason why the glory of God can come into your life and work in a hidden way. And that gets us to my last point. The last point, how should we respond? Well, I'm going to suggest three ways. If this is all true, Three ways you should be responding. Obey because he's not tame, worship because he's not boring, and be patient because there's more than meets the eye. See, first of all, obey. If Jesus Christ really is the very glory of God, not just a nice guy, one of the things the word glory means is importance. And he must be all important. He says, how can you live with the terrifying thought that the hurricane has become human, that fire has become flesh, that life, capital L, itself came to life and walked in our midst? Christianity means either that or it means nothing. It is either the most devastating disclosure of the deepest reality in the world, or it's a sham, a nonsense, a bit of deceitful play acting. Most of us unable to cope with saying either of those things condemn ourselves to live in the shallow world in between. What's he saying? He says, if Jesus Christ isn't just a nice man, a wonderful teacher, but he's the very glory of God, he's ultimate reality, that means you have to obey him. Everything in your life has to revolve around him. You see, when God says, in the midst of the cloud, loud. This is my son whom I love. Listen to him. The word listen actually means obey. I mean, the Greek word for obey is the word hoop-a-cou-o. You know, acoustics is the word, we get our word acoustics, it means to hear with the ear. We get our word acoustics from it. How are the acoustics? We're new here. How are they? Okay. But the Greek word is hyper-a-cou-o. Get that? Obey is hyper-hear, not to hear only with the ear, but with the whole being. And what we know is this. If Jesus Christ really is ultimate reality, then you can't just have him in your life on the periphery. He has to be the reason you get up in the morning. He has to be the thing that everything in your life revolves around. He has to be the axis on which everything turns. He's got to be your absolute Lord. You can't just like Jesus. Christian, but I do believe in Jesus. What he's saying, it's all or nothing. If the hurricane has become human, you have to give everything to him, everything, just surrender everything to him, or else. It's all a sham. Most people live in the middle, but there's no integrity in that. Either it's all a sham, don't have anything to do with it, or else give him your whole life. Look at those areas of your life where you know you're not obeying him and say, command me. So obey him because he's not a tame God. This shows that. He's the hurricane become human. Secondly, worship him because he's not a boring God. The word glory sometimes means importance, but it also means beauty. And if you go to all parts of the Old Testament that talk about his glory, like in Ezekiel, when the glory of God appears, there's always colors, colors there's rainbows there's sparks there's there's lights and it's getting across this idea we're all seeking for beauty and we you may find you may look in landscapes you might look at somebody's face or arms but the ultimate beauty is this and this is not get your try to get your head around this for a second. I said that physically, physically, the glory of God in Jesus is no longer a terror, right? If you go to God in Jesus, physically, you're no longer dead, but you're enlivened. But it's also true in your mind, psychologically, until you understand what Jesus Christ did on the cross, glory is a threat. I mean, what have I just said to you just in the last two minutes. I said, if Jesus is the glorious God, that means you have to give him everything. You have to obey him completely. And that's traumatic. We say, I don't want to lose control. I understand that. But if you see him losing his beauty so that you could get it, if you see him dying for you, if you see him becoming so small, not a king at all for you, do. That shows you that he's safe to trust in and obey. And there's nothing more beautiful than that. And when you see his beauty, the beauty of what he did, the beauty of who he is, you may do a lot of things before and after you become a Christian. You know, you still might be a good husband or wife or father or mother or son or daughter. You still might help the poor. You still may do a lot of good things. But after you become a Christian and you see his beauty, the motivation is no longer just duty. It's desire. It's no longer fear because I've got to live up. It's gratitude for what he's done for you. It's joy. There's a John Newton wrote a hymn some years ago. It goes like this. Our pleasure and our duty, though opposite before, since we have seen his beauty, are joined apart no more. to see the law by Christ fulfilled and hear his pardoning voice transforms a slave into a child and duty into choice. And here's the last thing to say, and it is the last thing. Remember how I said that on the way down, they'd just seen Elijah, so they start saying, well, no, wait a minute. If you're the Messiah, who's the Elijah that's supposed to come? Was that it? And Jesus says, no, John the Baptist is the Elijah who was the forerunner, but he was killed and I'm going to get killed. It's dark up on the mountain. Briefly, the shutter opened and there was light. But basically, everything is dark. It's almost like, think of it this way. Jesus is Clark Kent. But for one split second, he was Superman and then he put it back and he went back on down. And there was no, you know, heroics at the end where suddenly he, you know, he destroyed it. There's no Samson thing where he just pulled down, killed all of his enemies or anything like that. No. Why? Because Jesus Christ's glory is hidden, and yet it was at work, wasn't it? Even in all the darkness, even in all the weakness, even in all the stuff that was going wrong, he was working. He saved our lives. And so I think this is a way of saying, if your life is filled with darkness and everything seems needs to be going downhill. In spite of appearances, there's glory at work. If you belong to him and if you trust in him, there's glory at work. Paul says it when he says, at one point he says that our present sufferings are preparing for us an eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison. That even as our outer man, our outer body is being wasting away, our inner person is being beautiful like a diamond, like, of course, pressure turns a piece of coal into a diamond. In other words, he is turning you into something beautiful and glorious. His glory is at work, even if on the outside it looks dark and drear. Be patient, because when you know Jesus and he's in your life, there's always more to life than meets the eye. Let's pray. pray. Dear Father, dear Father, teach us how to obey your Son, worship your Son, and trust your Son, even in the dark times, so that more and more your glory can come into our lives and transform form us. Thank you, Lord Jesus, for becoming so small so that we could become kings and queens that reign with you forever. You lost your kingship so that we could become children of the great king. And we pray, Lord, that you would conform our lives into the image of your son, a father, who did all this for us. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
