Ephesians chapter 4, going through it verse by verse, and at this point we're in verse 14. We're going to read verses 14 to 24. Ephesians chapter 4, and we'll read verses 14 through 24. Then we will no longer be infants tossed back and forth by the waves, blown here and there by every wind of teaching and by the cunning and craftiness of men in their deceitful scheming. Instead, speaking the truth in love, we will in all things grow up into him who is the head, that is Christ. From him the whole body, joined and held together by every supporting ligament, grows and builds itself up in love as each part does its work. So I tell you this and insist on it in the Lord, that you must no longer live as the Gentiles do in the futility of their thinking. They are darkened in their understanding and separated from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them due to the hardening of their hearts. Having lost all sensitivity, they have given themselves over to sensuality so as to indulge in every kind of impurity with a continual lust for more. You, however, did not come to know Christ that way. Surely you heard of him and were taught in him in accordance with the truth that is in Jesus. You were taught with regard to your former way of life to put off your old self, which is being corrupted by its deceitful desires, to be made new in the attitude of your minds, and to put on the new self, created to be like God, in true righteousness and holiness. And this ends the reading of God's Word. Well, we've been traveling through Ephesians 4, and up to now, in the last few verses, we've been seeing Paul say the purpose of everything is that we grow up into Christ. We become like Christ. We grow up into his stature. We become like him in his character. One of the uniquenesses about Christianity, is its concept of the kingdom of God. The kingdom of God... Let me say something that you'll hear so often you'll be able to recognize it or know it. The kingdom of God is the restoration of the whole world through the entrance of supernatural forces. Yes, that's true. You heard it here. The kingdom of God is the restoration of the whole world through the introduction of and through the entrance of supernatural forces. The Word of God and the Spirit of God are supernatural forces. They come from heaven, wherever and to the degree that someone comes in underneath the power of the Word and the power of the Spirit, that person, that community, that family, that neighborhood, that business, that institution, that relationship. in underneath his kingly power, by being subject to the word of the king and the spirit of the king, you become restored. Your decay starts to work backwards. Everything that was sad becomes untrue. Everything begins to come together, and there's a wholeness, and there's a healing, and there's a restoration, and that's what the kingdom of God is. The uniqueness of the Christian faith is that Christianity teaches that the kingdom of God is here partially but not fully. It's here really but not completely. In other words, the kingdom of God has been inaugurated but it hasn't been consummated. And because of that, what it means to be a Christian is kind of complicated. Because if on the other hand we could say the kingdom of God is totally in the future and his restoration power is not here and transforming power is not here now, then we could just say, all right, our job, We give our lives to Christ, we commit ourselves to Him, and we don't expect to see many great things happening. We try to live a good life and try our very best to hold on and do what He said. And we consider all of the great radical changes and transformations into His likeness, into His glory, into His greatness, into His wisdom, into His power, into His thinking and His feeling, into all those great things. We say that's in the future. On the other hand, if the Kingdom of God was completely present, then if it was completely here, then converting to Christianity would be like a Steven Spielberg special effects movie because you would walk up to him and there'd be this blaze of light and you would immediately be transformed into a radiant, pulsating person just like Jesus Christ. Someone surging with such greatness and power and perfection that you'd be a special effect. But the Bible tells us the kingdom of God is present yet it's not here fully, and that means that the Christian experiences growth. See? On the one hand, we're not talking about Christianity as just trying your best to be good until Jesus comes back, and on the other hand, it's not some blaze of glory in which all of your sins and problems are eradicated. Instead, we talk about conversion being the new birth. The birth means you enter into a new life, but you start off at a kind of rudimentary state. That's what we In other words, because of the presence of the kingdom, but not the fullness of the kingdom, we can say that every Christian is not at all, you're not at all what you were, but you're not at all what you will be either. See, you're not what you were, and you're not what you will be. You're growing. It's just like yeast comes into the bread, and when the yeast starts to come up, it brings the bread with it. It transforms it. It pulls the bread and makes it into its own likeness. And in the same way, the power, the kingdom of God has come into our lives, and it's bringing us up and pulling us up, you might say, into the fullness of the stature of Christ. Now, how do we get there? And we've been looking at this, and today we get, or tonight we get to verse 17. And verse 17 says, and so, you see before that, purpose of being a Christian, the whole purpose of the church, the purpose of everything we're doing, getting together here, is in verse 15, it says to grow up into the head, or verse 13, where it says to achieve the knowledge of the Son of God and become mature, attaining to the fullness of the stature of Christ. So becoming like him. Now the question that comes up is, how can we do that? How? The word so, or therefore, in verse 17 means that Paul is going on to explain head. So it is a sense in which everything else that happens throughout the rest of the chapter and throughout the rest of the book is explaining how we can grow up into the head. And we start with the section, and we are not covering the whole section tonight at all. We start with the section, verse 17, going down to verse 24. The first part of the section, 17, 18, and 19, tells us about where we were. And verses 20 to 24, then, in a very detailed way, tells us what we're growing out of and not what we're growing into. And it's an amazing passage, which we'll look at later, on what it really means to change. How do you change? A lot of you can't change, it feels like. And a lot of you don't change. And a lot of you say, people won't well, let me change, but on the other hand, I can't change. It doesn't seem like... How do you change? The answer is in verse 20 to 24. But before we can understand how to change, first, Paul gives us an incredibly detailed picture of where we used to be. It says, and I'll give you... I'll paraphrase a little bit. He says, you must no longer live as you used to live, as the Gentiles lived, in the vanity of their mind. They're darkened in their understanding and separated from the life of God that's in them due to the hardening of their hearts. Having lost all sensitivity, they have given themselves over to sensuality to indulge in every kind of impurity with a continual lust for more. That's what I want to look at right now. Well, you say, that's not a very cheerful phrase. Why do we have to look past? Why do we have to look in the back? Why do we have to look behind us? Yes, that was back there, but I thought this is about growth. Why does Paul bring this subject up? Aren't we talking about going forward? Why are we looking backward? And here's the reason why. And here's the reason we're just going to take the rest of our time tonight with getting a good picture of where Paul says we have come from and what we've been delivered from and what we're growing out of. First reason is, if you're a believer here, I want you to be able to rejoice. I want you to remember or see where you'd be without Jesus. One of the best questions you can ask yourself is, if I didn't have Jesus in my life, how would I be different today? What makes me different? How am I a different person? I be different? In some of our cases, that shows that we haven't grown much, but in most of our cases, it's an amazing question to answer. And I want you to rejoice, and I want you to stop feeling sorry for yourself, because one of the reasons we feel sorry for ourselves is we forget what's already happened, and what we've already been delivered from. And whenever you're saying, look at my life, it's not much, think about what it could be. There's a second reason it's good to a look in the past, and then we'll move on. And that is, we're growing out of this life, but don't think it's gone. Because as I said, if the kingdom of God was totally here, we'd be gone out of this life totally. But actually, there's still parts of it that are still clinging to us, and it's good to remember what it's like, because the old life still has claws in us, doesn't it? Did anybody say, I like, one of my favorite thriller movies is The Terminator with Arnold What I think is really funny is at the end, when I think of sin, I think of the Terminator. Because every time you think you've killed it, another hand grab comes up. You've killed it and it's crushed and it's all blown to pieces. And then as you're sitting there, suddenly a hand comes up and starts to grab you. Or grabs you here or here. And that's what the old life is like, friends. You think you killed it. and all of a sudden you find, you know, there's pieces of it that still have got a hand on me here and my ankle, something still got me by the ankle and I'm not moving out. You need to look at your old life, the old life, just to see there's still more of it in you than you think. And this is what you have to grow out of. All right, now let's take a look and see. He basically says three things. I just want to show you the structure of them and then just, you know, knock them off by looking at each part. There's three parts to this phrase. Look at each of the three parts and see what we can learn from each. First, it says, I'm giving you my own paraphrase, it says, we were all in the vanity of mind. That's the condition. Then secondly, we're given the cause of the condition. The reason we live in vanity of mind is because our understanding is darkened through the hardening of our hearts. So the cause of the condition, the vanity, is the darkening of the understanding. And then lastly, the consequence of the condition is, verse 19, having lost all sensitivity, they give themselves over to sensuality so as to indulge in every kind of impurity with a continual lust for more, which is simply saying, because of the darkening of our understanding, we live in vanity, and living in vanity leads to, see verse 17 is the condition, verse 18, is the cause, verse 19 is the consequence. The vanity leads to a ravenous hunger. Nothing is enough. No matter how much I get, everything I want is not enough. So there's a condition caused by the darkening of the understanding and that leads to this ravenous unhappiness and this need to eat everything in sight what I eat, I'm still hungry, and I'm getting hungrier all the time. Now, it all starts with this condition. Now, the modern translation, I don't want to pull this on you, but every so often I have to do it. The modern translation says, in the futility of their thinking, the older King James, the authorized version, says what? In the vanity of their mind. It's a better translation, and I'll explain why. First of all, the word mind. When you see the word mind in the Bible, it's virtually the same thing as the heart. When you see the word understanding, it's talking about the intellect. Unfortunately, the translators decided the word mind here meant your intellect and your thinking. That's really not the best way to think about it. You've got to realize that today, in English anyway, some of you, English isn't your first language, but in English, when we talk about the word mind, we're thinking of the intellect. When we talk about the heart, we're thinking about the emotions. And that's not at all the way the Bible speaks. The word mind and the word heart are essentially interchangeable. They are the seat of the soul, the personality. When we talk about vanity of the mind, we're talking about the futility or the vanity of the human personality without Christ. Now the word vanity or futility is a great word. means pointlessness. It can be translated as futility, it can be translated as emptiness, but it's best translated as meaninglessness. It means what? It means you have a deep sense of going nowhere, of your life not adding up to anything. The condition of a life without Christ is that you feel like you're an idling engine. You're running and running and racing and racing, and you're getting nowhere, and you say, where's the clutch? But you can't find the clutch. So you're racing, and you're idling. You're getting nowhere. You feel basically all the things I'm doing are adding up to pointlessness. One of my favorite poems by Shelley is one called Ozymandias, and it's a poem about, I guess Shelley had seen this, coming somewhere in Egypt and finding this old, old statue of some old king that had fallen down and was practically nothing but rubble now. You couldn't make out the face or anything else, but you could make out the inscription at the bottom. And at the bottom it said, anybody remember? I am Ozymandias. Look upon me, ye mighty, and despair. And see, originally when it was originally put up, see the irony of it, when it was originally put up, had put up a great monument, and he said, look at me, look at my greatness. When I am dead, you will see that I was greater than you because my monuments are greater than you, and my buildings are greater than you. Look upon me, ye mighty in despair. I am more mighty than you. And yet, the irony of the thing is, now here's Ozymandias. Nobody remembers who he is. All of his great deeds are just dust. Even his great monument is dust. It's fallen on the ground, is this inscription, which now is saying something quite biblical. I am Ozymandias. Look upon me, ye mighty. Those of you who think by being mighty, by being powerful, by building great buildings, by consolidating your power, by doing great deeds in the world, that by that your life will have meaning, and your life will have a point to it. But look upon me, ye mighty, in despair. despair. Nobody's going to even remember who you are in a few years. Everything you do comes to nothing. Very biblical. I am Ozymandias. Look upon me, mighty in despair. Now, this is the message of Ecclesiastes. And the message of Ecclesiastes is all about vanity, vanity, all is vanity. Same basic word and same basic condition. In fact, Ecclesiastes is marvelous because what Ecclesiastes does, and what this verse does, is it gives us the psychology of atheism, in a sense. It gives us the psychology of unbelief. It shows how people work apart from Christ. Now, the reason I call it a powerful psychology is this. Virtually every psychology you read tends to reduce something to a key. It says, this is the key problem. This is the reason people act This is the reason people are messed up. This is it. And it gives you a key. Now everybody's got a different one. So Freud, and Freud is pretty much not followed anymore. Freud saw the key as being sex, you see. He saw sexuality as a problem, a big problem. Repressed sexuality is a problem. The Oedipus complex. The poor little boy is all messed up because he wants to marry his mother because he's sexually attracted to her and he wants to kill his father and so on. And everything revolved around sex. now, but in its day, this was the key. This was the bottom line. This is what made us tick. This is the problems where they came from. You know, there's a lot of other ones. One that's very, very popular right now is a kind of popular psychology, all that revolves around the codependency trip. And basically it goes, I think it kind of goes like this. The real problem is that everybody needs love, lots of love as a child, and you didn't get enough love. And because you didn't get enough love, you're all messed up. And this is the key. And now you've got to go get that love, and it creates all kinds of problems in your life. It's a fairly simple one. And, you know, Freud's right. Sex is a powerful drive. And the codependency, you know, ring is right, that we need love as children. And if you don't love your children, your children get screwed up. And if you don't get love from your children, but it's wrong, biblically, to actually say, this is the key." To say this is a fact, this is true, is one thing, but to say this is the key, no. The Bible, here in this verse, and elsewhere in the Scripture, especially in Romans 1, here's what the key is. The key is, not, bottom line, everybody needs sexual expression, or, bottom line, everybody needs love from their parents, but, bottom line, Every human being needs to worship. Every human being needs to worship. We are homo religioso. Man the religious one. That means that we can't, like animals, just get up every day and do things. We can't just say, well today I'm going to get up, I'm going to eat, I'm going to go to work, I'm going to rest, I'm going to lay down, I'm going to go to sleep. We need to know what's it all about, Alfie. We need to know what is it all about, what's it for. There's got to be an overarching reason for things. There's got to be an organizing principle. There's got to be some purpose in it. We've got to live for something. I can't just get up and do this thing. I've got to do it for something. You know what that means? You know that. Everybody feels that way. I've got to do this for something. That for something is our ultimate concern. Paul Tillich put it that way. It's our faith. We have to have belief in something. We have to rely on something. There has to be something that gives our life meaning, something our life is going toward, and everybody's got that, and those things we are actually worshiping. And, you know, Ecclesiastes is a marvelous diagnostic manual because Ecclesiastes goes through all of them. And Ecclesiastes talks about what it means to live for wisdom and understanding, expertise and scholarship. Then later on it talks about discussing people who build their lives on the pursuit of pleasure and comfort, laughter and fun through drugs, substances. It talks about a life of aesthetics. That's another way to try to find meaning, to surround yourself with beauty. Beautiful art, beautiful surroundings, beautiful music, you see. Aesthetics, meaning through aesthetics. Another one that Ecclesiastes goes and explores is sex. Finding meaning through sexuality. The arts. Through power and wealth, through popularity and love and relationships and acclaim, the result's always the same. In the end, they say what? as the guy keeps saying? Vanity, vanity, all is vanity. What he means is, where's it gotten me? What have I really accomplished? I make all this money and I die and I leave it to some people who knows what they're going to do with it. I try to love somebody and the person leaves me, or even the person stays. I need somebody else somehow. Vanity, vanity, all is vanity. It's pointless. It's not getting me anywhere. And this text, as well as Romans 1, tells us that this is the way the psychology operates. First of all, in Romans 1 and here, we're told that we're built to live for God, but we refuse to live for God. We want to live for everything else, but not him. As a result, these other things that we live for become addictions. Romans 1 says we're given over to them, and Ephesians 4 here tells us that we become locked into them. Our hearts get hard, our minds get dark. Now, we know something about addiction when it's physical. When a person gets physically addicted to something, when they get addicted to alcohol, addicted to drugs, we have analyzed that, we've looked at that, and we know exactly what this means. We see their hearts harden, we see their minds darken, we see them getting more confused, they more and more distort reality. Some of you, plenty of you, have been through this. You distort reality, don't you? You can't admit the truth. You live in denial. Your mind gets darker and darker. Your heart gets harder and harder. You become less and less yourself. You're locked in. You know what the Bible is saying? Physical addiction is just the tip of the iceberg. Everybody's addicted to something until you're liberated through living for God. You're addicted to something. It doesn't have to be alcohol. It doesn't have to be drugs. But it's something. There's something that you're locked into, and if you don't get it, your life is ruined. And it drives you. And it depends on culture. Haven't you seen this? For example, in middle-class Anglo-American culture, peer pressure is a tremendous thing that drives you. I've got to be popular. I've got to have friends. sexy, good-looking partner. Now, I found in some non-Anglo cultures that I've gotten a little bit to know, for example, I found, for example, in many Asian cultures, and many of you are from Asian backgrounds, I find it's not the peer pressure, it's the parent pressure. And what you get addicted to is, your parents have got expectations. You've got to get into the right grad schools. You've got to get into the right professions. Heaven help you if you don't. and the children that do find themselves getting dissipated and bored as time goes on and very burnt out and the children that don't live up to their parents' expectations, end up in the mental hospitals because they hate themselves so much. You know, what is that? You see, well, in one particular culture there's a proneness to this. In another particular culture there's a proneness to this, but it's the same thing

because we won't acknowledge God and we won't actually live for him, we experience vanity. We experience a pointlessness. We find ourselves addicted to these things and eventually we find that they don't satisfy us and we have a continual lust for more and more things and we're not able to get into it. And on your handout, I just tried to diagram the threefold dynamic of the psychology of unbelief. We will not live for God, so we live for other things. These other things that we live for, and addict us, and on the other hand, refuse to satisfy us and can't do it. This is what's said, and this is what's happening. Now, I've got to move on. I can't say everything I'd like to say at this point. Now, let's talk about the cause of it. What does it mean when it talks about darkness of mind? And this is the only other thing we can talk about here tonight. It says, and this is very important, it says, carefully, they are darkened in their understanding and separated from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them due to the hardness of their hearts

First, darkness of the understanding and darkness of the mind — this is a pretty horrible thing. I don't know if you have known anybody like this but I as a pastor in my first church I spend a lot of time with people who are dying of Alzheimer's disease. And one of them, I think it's got to be, I've seen a lot of people suffer, a lot of different things. I have to think that the worst suffering at all is to know you're going crazy. And to know that every day your mind is not working. And to be smart enough and to have enough of a mind to know that your mind is falling apart. It's a horrible thing. Paul comes and says, however, listen, it is not that we reject and harden our hearts our understanding is darkened. But rather, if you look carefully, you'll see, our understanding is darkened because of the hardness of heart. I see this in children all the time. Nobody wants to have somebody over them. And since children don't want to have masters and they want to be their own masters, they distort the truth. They refuse to listen to you or they fool themselves about what you've said. They distort the truth so that nobody can take away what they want, and that is control of their own lives. I told you that addicts do that. Some of you have been through that process. Because I want control, I will deny the truth. I will distort the truth. And the Bible here says, because we don't want God as a master, our minds go dark. It's a pretty scary thing, but it happens. It happens on the intellectual level, and it happens on the psychological level. level, for example. People whose minds are dark just simply can't understand God, and they can't understand the Christian faith, and they can't understand Christians. There's a place in 1 Corinthians where it says, the spiritual man judges all things, but himself is judged of no one. You know what that means? It means a spiritual man, because his mind's been illuminated by the Spirit of God can understand life. A spiritual man understands all things, but he himself is incomprehensible to others. A spiritual man judges all things, but himself is judged of no one. He can figure out things, but other people can't figure him out. Look, I've seen this all the time. For example, there was a couple of people in my church in Virginia that didn't make a lot of money, but they double tithed. They gave away to God's work and to other people, they gave away every year 20% of their income or so. And these people were incessantly audited by IRS. And you know why. I mean, every year they used to come and they said right off that we can't believe somebody would do that. We can't believe somebody would give away that much money to the church. You're crazy. People don't do that. I can't, I'll never forget the number of times I've had a number who, when they were getting married, they would go off to their doctor to talk to them about birth control, and they would just insist. The women would just insist, I'm sorry, I'm not having sex right now. I mean, I'm not having sex, so take this into consideration, please, as you're prescribing birth control. And the doctors would just laugh. Come on, forget it, chastity. Are you kidding me? They can't figure that out. They can't figure out why anybody would be as generous as Christians would be. They can't figure out why anybody would be chaste I had a couple of friends who were young people and they had a little, well, no. I was thinking of one family, a young family, mother, several young children, and a young father, great guy, great Christian, and he died of cancer. And he died over a long period of time. I'll never forget that funeral. We couldn't put all the people in the church. I mean, there were people all over the place. And you know why? They came and they said, we can't figure these people out. Well, we've been watching them go through. These were people that they lived with, people that they worked with, people at the plant where he worked, people at the school where she taught their friends. And they came and they said, we can't understand it. Their attitude is so strange. There's no denial of what's happening. There's lots of grief. There's nothing unhealthy about it. And yet they're constantly saying, we know God's going to provide. God doesn't owe us a good life or an easy life. He's already given us more than we deserve. serve. We know that he's going to have to take care. We just hope that this is a way for us to show forth the glory of what God's done in our lives. And these people said, this is crazy. This is weird. How could anybody live like this? And here's the problem. If you went to a party, and you saw all 100 people there, and you walked around and talked to them, and somebody else came into the same party, and only saw 25 of them, the other 75 were invisible, and they watched your behavior, you would look pretty crazy. And that is how a non-Christian looks at a Christian. A non-Christian's mind is darkened. He or she can't see the major part of reality. He can only see the physical. He can't see the rest. And he sees the most inexplicable part. And as a result, he cannot figure out what's going on. His mind's darkened. But here's the good news. Here's the good news. It's not a matter of how smart you are. It's a matter of God taking away the darkness. At one point when I was visiting Northern Ireland, I went to a spot at the very, very north called the Giant's Causeway. At the Giant's Causeway you can see Scotland on a clear day. Somebody said, Hey, you can see Scotland. We looked and there's never a clear day in Northern Ireland. I don't know how anybody has ever seen it. Anyway, we sat there and we looked. and we couldn't see it. Now, if I said, this is ridiculous, you can't see Scotland from here, or if I said there's something wrong with my eyes, I would be making a mistake because the real problem is not my eyes, it's the mist. It's the dark mist over top of what's going on. It has nothing to do with my capacity, nothing at all. Being a Christian and being a great person in life has nothing to do with how smart you are or how able you are. It's whether or not you've gone to God away from your eyes. There's two great, let me tell you this story. There are two great friends, William Pitt and William Wilberforce. Some of you have heard this, maybe. William Pitt was the grandson of the great William Pitt, the prime minister after whom Pittsburgh is named. He was a brilliant man. He was a great man. He had a tremendous capacity, and his friend William Wilberforce was also a fine guy. William Pitt was not a Christian. William Wilberforce was. One day, Wilberforce took William Pitt to church. And on that day, the preaching was tremendous. And William Wilberforce sat there and said, oh, this is so exciting. I can't believe that my friend is hearing this. His own heart was lifted up to heaven as he heard the great sermon. And on the way out the door, he turned to William Pitt and he said, well, what did you think? And William Pitt looked at him. William Pitt, twice the IQ, twice the pedigree, twice the ability, twice the connection, says to William Wilberforce, I don't know what that man was talking about. Now, Wilberforce was the man who became a member of Parliament, and because of his conviction from reading the Scripture, he came up and said, you know, slavery is wrong. In over a 30-year period, he fought tooth and nail and did the most amazing things and got slavery abolished in the British Empire, 1833. He even had to get to the place where he convinced the Parliament to pay every slave owner out of its own treasury reimbursement for all the slaves that it was freeing. One of the most incredible acts of righteousness that any legislature has ever done in history. Why did William Wilberforce do this? Because he was more able than William Pitt? No. I had a friend of mine who did a Ph.D. at Yale, and he said, you know, people look back at slavery and we say, how could anybody have been so awful as to believe in slavery and allow slavery? And he says, a historian doesn't think like this. A historian says this. Why, after thousands of years, every culture, every century, every place in the world, everybody practiced slavery. If you were stronger than another group of people, you enslaved them. Everybody had done this for years. This is just the way it was. Survival of the fittest, we just did it this way. And my friend said the historian has to say, why, after thousands of years of everybody, everybody practicing slavery, where did it get into anybody's mind that it was wrong? ever thought that? And the answer is, it came from the Bible. It was Christians who were the abolitionists. Many Christians read the Bible through cultural blinders and didn't see this, but it came because of the light of the Word of God. William Wilberforce was no way as great an intellect or as great a mind as William Pitt. No way was he as great a person or as great a legislator as William Pitt could have been, but he had the light. His mind was no longer darkened. and up came the light. And as a result of that, look at the great person he became. It has nothing to do with your background. Maybe you did come from a dysfunctional family. It has nothing to do with your mind. Maybe you do only have an IQ of 90 and all your friends have IQs of 150 and they all got 1600 on their college boards and they all breezed through graduate school and they're making $800,000 a year. So what? Do you understand the truth in this scripture, do you understand what it's saying? It's saying there's a mist, a dark mist over people's minds. And until you go and say, Lord, blow this away, until he blows it away, you're in darkness. But when he blows it away, when he blows it away, then you can grow up into the fullness of the stature of Christ. Friends, just here's how we close. Do you see the vanity, the pointlessness of life outside of Christ? Christ, read that long quote from C.S. Lewis that goes to show that even philosophers understand that apart from Christ, there is absolute darkness. Absolute darkness. If there is no God, we can't even trust what we think. We can't even talk about right or wrong. We shouldn't even worry about nuclear warfare because after all, if there is no God, what happens? In the end, the world finally will go out and no one will remember it and everything is meaningless or else there is a God and everything is meaningful. Look, friends, be grateful for what you've lost. Notice that there's still parts of it in you and realize that you can be a lamp for people in a dark place. Turn to people and say, if you've got people around you who just aren't listening to you, they just aren't listening to you, they're addicted spiritually, they're addicted to unbelief, please, don't be knocking their heads against the wall. Don't be saying, what's wrong? Why don't you listen to me? They're just like you were. What you have to do is you pray for them. You open to them. You ask them to come. And if you're a person, here's the last thing I'll say, if you're a person who says, you know what, I do see this darkness in my thinking. I do see that I'm having some problems here, but I don't know that whether or not I've really come to him and I don't know whether or not he's really illuminated my mind. When Jesus Christ was dealing with a man born blind and he touched him, remember that? And he said, do you see a right? And the man looked around and said, no, I don't. I see men looking like trees walking around. Then Jesus touched him again and cleared his sight up. Some of you are definitely on the way, but you have to admit that you don't see straight. Admit it to friends. Admit it to God. Admit it to yourself. Because if that guy had said, oh, I see perfectly well. Don't, of course, Jesus. Jesus would have said, that's fine. I'll just leave you the way you are. And he would have walked along the rest of his life bumping into things and not knowing. Friends, go to him and say, I need for you to heal the darkness in my I don't see a right. And Christian friends, none of us see a right. Some of you are unhappy, as we said in the beginning, because Jesus' peace isn't new to you, his power isn't new to you, because darkness, like the Terminator pieces, comes back and grabs hold of you, and you have to say, down, down, away. Lord, heal my darkness. There's a mist over my eyes and off over my heart. Take it away. You're my hope. Let's pray. Hey Father, we thank you that you've shown us where we've left. We thank you that you've removed us for the vanity and purposelessness, the vanity of life without you. We also see, Father, that there's darkness on our eyes and darkness on our hearts. For some of us, we ask that you just lift it. There's still a lot of confusion. For many of us, we say, Lord, Lord, we need you to continually, continually enlighten us more and more because your word says that your truth is like the path that shines more and more into the perfect day. And we ask that you would continually illumine us so that we can escape the futility of the thinking of those who walk without you. And now, Father, we ask that you'd lead us in these ways. We pray it in Jesus' name. Amen.
