When Israel saw the sons of Joseph, he asked, Who are these? They are the sons God has given me here, Joseph said to his father. Then Israel said, Bring them to me, so I may bless them. Now Israel's eyes were failing because of old age, and he could hardly see. So Joseph brought his sons close to him, and his father kissed them and embraced them. Israel said to Joseph, I never expected to see your face again, and now God has allowed me to see your children too. Then Joseph removed them from Israel's knees and bowed down with his face to the ground. And Joseph took both of them, Ephraim on his right toward Israel's left hand and Manasseh on his left toward Israel's right hand and brought them close to him. But Israel reached out his right hand and put it on Ephraim's head, though he was the younger. And crossing his arms, he put his left hand on Manasseh's head, even though Manasseh was the firstborn. Then he blessed Joseph and said,

He said, Joseph said to him, No, my father, this one is a firstborn. Put your right hand on his head. But his father refused and said, I know, my son, I know. He too will become a people, and he too will become great. Nevertheless, his younger brother will be greater than he, and his descendants will become a group of nations. He blessed them that day and said, In your name will Israel pronounce this blessing. May God make you like Ephraim and Manasseh. So he put Ephraim ahead of Manasseh. The word of the Lord.

We've been looking at the life of Jacob in the book of Genesis, and this is the fifth passage or scene, you might say, out of the fifth scene or fifth act, out of the narrative of Jacob's life. And of all the passages, this has got to be, especially you would know this if you have been here through the five weeks or some of the five weeks, this is the most boring of all the scenes that the Bible gives us from Jacob's life. See, an awful lot of the other scenes are really great. I mean, you had the wrestling in midnight with the angel of the Lord. We'll talk about that in a second. We have the and earth, the stairway between heaven and earth, the love story of Rachel and Jacob, the conspiracy to cheat Esau out of his birthright by duping poor blind father Isaac, and so forth. Real exciting. Now, here is the last scene in Jacob's life. We scroll to the end, and this is the moment of his death, essentially. And on his deathbed, he brings his children and in this case, his grandchildren, Ephraim and Manasseh, the sons of Joseph, his son Joseph, his grandsons. And we see him giving the deathbed blessing, which of course was very significant in the life of the family in those days and so forth. So why are we looking at this? One of the things that has vexed me for at least two or three years when I first noticed it is in the book of Hebrews, chapter 11, there's a famous chapter that gives a kind of survey of all these great ancient figures like Moses and Abraham and Jacob and Joseph and David and Enoch and Noah and so forth. It goes right through and does a survey of all of these great figures from Genesis and the Hebrew Scriptures. And it gives little summaries of everything that they did. And what's What's intriguing is that when the book of Hebrews gets to Jacob, of all of the incidents in Jacob's life, this is the only one that's mentioned. In Hebrews 11, verse 25, we're told, no, verse 21, we read, By faith Jacob, while dying, blessed each of Joseph's sons and bowed in worship, leaning on the top of his staff. Now, isn't that weird? I mean, it was very weird to me. The writer of Hebrews, of the book of Hebrews, and surely we've got to take this seriously, says, chooses this moment, the thing that Michelle just read, this deathbed blessing of Ephraim and Manasseh, as the triumphant moment of his life, the preeminent expression of his faith. Not the wrestling at midnight, not the dream at Bethel, none of the other things. This is it. Why? And actually, when I say it vexed me, I mean, as a student of the Bible and as a teacher of the Bible, I've tried to come to grips with why it's so important in the eyes of the book of Hebrews, and I think I've pretty much gotten there. I think I've figured it out, at least to a pretty good extent, and I'm going to share it with you tonight. This, of course, being in the last scene in Jacob's life, draws together the basic theme of his life. The basic theme of his life has been the overpowering grace of God. But what we're going to see here is that though Jacob alludes to the need for God's grace, and though he also alludes to the need for an experience of God's grace, preeminently we learn here about what it means to look at all of life through the lenses

We learn here about the need for God's grace. We learn here about the experience of God's grace. But above all, we learn how the grace of God is not just a doctrine to be believed, not just a subjective experience to have, but it's a way of looking at every single thing in life. The gospel of grace is a set of lenses, as it were, through which everything looks different. Everything. It's a worldview, not just an experience and not just a doctrine. see that. First of all, Jacob in this great deathbed blessing alludes to our need for God's grace when he says in verse 16, the God who has been my shepherd. This is the first time in the Bible that God is called a shepherd. And this is Jacob's way of characterizing himself and his spiritual condition. Because if God's a shepherd, what's that make Jacob? If God's a shepherd, make you? Come on. Don't you know an insult when you see it? New Yorkers like to know when they're insulted. There's nothing. It's one thing to be insulted. It's another thing to have to know when you're insulted because that shows that you're naive and you don't get it. Do you realize an insult when you see it? Jacob doesn't say, he is my rancher and I am his horse. It says, he is my shepherd and I am the sheep. If a horse gets away from the rancher, what happens? The horse just goes wild. If a sheep gets away from a shepherd, what happens? The sheep dies because, well, why do you think the prairies were not filled in olden days with herds of wild sheep? sheep. Because sheep of all livestock are the most helpless and stupid. They cannot get home. They cannot find food on their own. They cannot get home on their own. They are helpless on their own. are running around, that sort of thing. Dogs and cats can find their way home. Horses can be let out. Cattle can be let out. But you can't let the sheep out and then come, you know, round them up and bring them on back unless they're in a very, very enclosed area. Sheep are foolish. Sheep need

comprehensive, endless, 24-hour care. And the first thing that Jacob is simply saying is this. look at the picture of our spiritual weakness and cluelessness. We don't need a God like the God of the other religions that say, God says, here's what you must do, do it. Seek me, find me,

do my rules and my law. Oh, no, no, no. Jacob knows that we're too clueless for that. We're not horses spiritually, we're not cattle spiritually, we're not dogs and cats spiritually, where sheep. The sheep need a shepherd. The shepherd has to come to the sheep and constantly rescue the sheep. We need a God who covers the waterfront with salvation, as it were. We need a God who just tells us, here's the rules and go do it. We need a God who fulfilled the rules for us, then beats it into our head that He's done it, and constantly comes back to us over and over again that we don't deserve it, that we don't seek it, and to tell us what He's done for us over and over and over again. So the first thing that Jacob is giving us here is in this sweet little sounding image is he's making a radical statement about our need for God's grace. That's the first thing. He's alluding to and referring in this dead-death blessing for our absolute need for the grace of God. But beyond that, he also alludes to his personal experience of God. Now, I can say this safely, that there's a lot of people in this room who admit their need for the grace of God, and that there are somewhat fewer people in this room, though, who have actually experienced personally the grace of God and had a personal encounter with the grace of God. Now, how do I know that? Because I can say that about any room of people, okay? That there's far more people who admit their need for God and, in other words, admit the principle, the objective doctrine or principle of the grace of God, and there's fewer people who have experienced subjectively that grace on their heart. And Jacob is also alluding to his experience of God's grace when he says in verse 16, the angel who has delivered me from all harm, may he bless these boys. Now, that's a clear reference to what happened to him at Peniel. We looked at this last week. There's a mysterious but repeated tendency in the book of Genesis, in fact, all through the Hebrew Scriptures, the Old Testament, that in times of personal or national crisis, crisis, God comes in a human form, in a visible form, in a physical form, as the angel of the Lord. Notice Jacob does not say an angel of the Lord. Look at the clauses. It's nicely set up on the page. It says, may the God before my fathers, Abraham and Isaac, walk, the God who has been my shepherd, the angel who has delivered me. The angel is the synonym of the God.

The night that Jacob was attacked and he wrestled the mysterious stranger, that was the angel of the Lord. And that night, God blessed him. Now, that's last week's sermon. I can't go into it now. Remember it. If you weren't here, get the tape. It would help you understand this sermon, frankly. If you want to understand this sermon better, you might want to last weeks if you weren't there. But here's the point. An experience of God's grace always has two aspects to it. Almost on the surface of it, contradictory aspects, but actually they're interdependent. On the one hand, the night that Jacob was attacked by the great wrestler and wrestled into the ground and crippled and humbled was the night that he got a, how do I say, the experience of God's grace on the one hand means he saw his lostness, he saw his foolishness, he saw that he had been fighting God all of his life. He got a deeper view of his own brokenness and stupidity. In other words, he saw that he wasn't just a guy who's trying his best to live the best life he can, but he was a sheep. He saw his sheepiness. He saw his cluelessness. He saw his lostness that night. And on the other hand, the second thing that happened that night was he began to see God not just as a kind of remote lawgiver far away, but as a shepherd, as one who had come after him, one who wanted to bless him, one who only hurt him in order to wake him up. And so that's always what it means to experience well, I know I need God in my life. But an experience of the grace of God is always these two aspects. Oppositional, it looks like superficially, they're opposed, but interdependent. That is a deeper experience of your lostness, seeing that you're really more broken and alienated from God than you thought, and a deeper experience of His blessing, to see that He is more committed to you and more in love with you and more patient with you and that's what happened to him that night. Now, what's interesting, okay, now let's summarize where we are. We've gone through the first two points because they're not so important, because they're not really the thing that we're supposed to look at here. Jacob, on the one hand, has said, we need the grace of God, and an awful lot of people agree to that. They admit the principle. Secondly, Jacob has said, I've experienced the grace of God, and fewer people have done that. But now Jacob gets to something where we really see probably why the book of Hebrews thought this was the triumph of his grace. Because Jacob does something here that shows he's way beyond Joseph, who, by the way, was no slouch in spirituality. He's way beyond Joseph. He's way beyond anything he's ever been at. He's way beyond any place or position he's ever been before. Because we now see that Jacob is exhibiting, he's demonstrating that all of life looks different if you begin to use the gospel of grace as a set of spectacles or lenses through which you look at things. In other words, not just the gospel as a doctrine, not just the gospel as an experience, but the gospel as a worldview, as a way of looking at absolutely everything, of changing the way you regard and think of everything, everything in psychologically and sociologically and everything. And we have two examples here in this famous, well, maybe not famous enough, but almost comical incident of the crossed hands. Now, look, it's almost comical. Here is old Jacob. And by the way, in verse 10, the narrator is making, I think, almost certainly an ironic statement, because the narrator says in verse 10, Jacob's eyes were weak. He was losing his eyesight. He's end of his life. So here's old Jacob like this. And Joseph leads his two sons up to Jacob, and very carefully, because, you know, dad is, you know, decrepit at this point and hardly can see. So what he does is very, very carefully, he leads Manasseh, the older son, the son who gets the inheritance in all those ancient cultures, the son who was supposed to be the one who got the lion's share of the joy and the love of the family and got all the power and all the inheritance. He brings him to Jacob's right hand because the right hand was the place of power. The prime minister sat at the right hand of the throne. That's where the prime minister sat and so forth. So Joseph brings Manasseh to Jacob's right hand, and he brings little Ephraim, the second son, son, the little boy, to his left hand. And so there's Jacob, and Joseph's bringing him up, and here we are, Father, let us begin the blessing, and Jacob goes, okay.

And he begins to do the blessing. Now, Joseph is very upset. Some commentators, which helped me a little bit, say that when Joseph, verse 17 and 18, when Joseph saw his father placing the right hand on Ephraim's head, he was displeased. He takes his father's hand off. He interrupts. He says, no, my father. Now, he must have been very agitated.

Why? Well, he figured Jacob's eyes were that bad, he couldn't tell Ephraim from Manasseh. it. But what does Jacob say? Jacob says, I know, my son, exactly what I'm doing. And what the narrator is showing us is for the first time, really, in his life, Jacob's finally seen clearly. He's seeing through the lenses of grace. But the lenses of grace mean that he sees two things very differently than Joseph sees them. He sees the world's values use differently. That's the social reality. And he sees my personal life agenda differently, and that's my personal reality. Let me explain what I mean by these two things. When he crosses his hands and he refuses to move the hands back, he is showing that his understanding of the grace of God has changed his whole way of looking at social and personal reality. And he's way beyond even his son Joseph in this. Number one, let me show you. First of all, He refuses to change his hands, and that shows that the gospel of grace has changed his understanding of social reality. Why does Joseph get so mad? Because Joseph is a man of his time. And in that time, the world knows, this is how the world said, things get done through certain people. They get done through boys, not girls. They get done through the older boys, not the not the younger boys. They get done through the wealthy families, not the poor families. The world says there's always a set of people who we know this is how things get done, through them. Now, you can look at that and say, oh, yes, isn't it wonderful? We live in New York City, and we don't live in such a primitive society like that follows the law of primogeniture. No. Now, it's not so important that you're born first, maybe not even to some degree, it's important that you're born male. But you've still got to be born smart. Sure helps if you're born rich. Great if you're born with the right cheekbone structure. I mean, in other words, the world still has got a set of people through whom it says, these are the ones that the world, this is how things get done in the world. The first will be first. The last will be last. The bigger, the taller, the more slender, the more beautiful. They're wealthier, the more educated, the savvier, you see, the more successful. They're the ones. And Jacob refuses to go that way. And he deliberately senses the grace of God moving towards Ephraim, the younger. And what is he doing? When Jacob puts his hand, his right hand, on Ephraim's head. He is simply following God's economy. Why is it in the Bible, over and over and over again, when God works in the world, he deliberately chooses the one that the world says is not the way things get done? He chooses always, for example, in the book of Genesis, it's almost ridiculous, he chooses the younger son over the older son every time to utterly confound the plausibility structures of all cultures. He chooses Abel, not Cain. He chooses Isaac, not Ishmael. He chooses smarmy Jacob, not strapping, manly, dynamic, charismatic Esau. He chooses over and over. You don't even know some of them. He chooses Perez over Zerah. Who does he bring his salvation of the world through? Fertile, beautiful Hagar or Baron Old Sarah? Beauty Queen Rachel or unattractive Leah? And let's go on. Do you realize how pervasive this theme is in the Bible? If you go through the book of Judges, and we will at some point, we're going to go through the book of Judges, and every single one of the Judges is the wrong kind of person. Every one of them is a mess. Every one of them is from the wrong side of the tracks. There's one place in the middle of the book of Judges, which is amazing, Gideon comes to God, and Gideon is one of the leaders that God has raised up in order to throw off the oppressive yoke of the Midianites. And so Gideon says, okay, Lord, I've raised 10,000 men. I've got an army of 10,000 men. And in chapter 7, verse 2, one of my favorite verses in the Bible, God says, your army's too big for me to deliver Israel through it. Your army's too big for me to through it. I don't save people through big groups. I don't save people through the powerful. I don't save people through the competent. You've got to knock it down to 300.

Here comes Goliath. What are we going to do about Goliath? So God sends Samuel to Jesse's home, and Jesse has all of these strapping young sons, and God chooses the only one who hasn't gone through puberty. Why? Do you realize how pervasive this is? You go to the Gospels, and every time there's a prostitute and a religious leader, every time there's a tax collector and a teacher of the law, every time there is a racial outsider and insider, a sexual outsider and insider, a moral outsider, someone who's, you know, morally degraded versus an upstanding moral Bible teaching leader. Every time there's a racial or sexual or moral or political outsider versus an insider, Jesus always works with the outsider. Do you know how pervasive this is? Why? By the way, notice it's not that God hates Manasseh. I mean, Jacob says, hey, Manasseh's okay. But I want you to see that God's economy opposes the economy of the world. God works through the people that the world thinks are failures. God's grace flows through them. Why? Because the ultimate example of God's working in the world was in the only founder of a major religion who died in disgrace, not surrounded by all of his loving disciples, but abandoned by everybody who he cared about, including his

and was beaten into the dust. Jesus Christ's salvation is a salvation that came through defeat, poverty, rejection. Why? Because God's a shepherd. If God was just a king, of course He's a king, but if He was only a king, His salvation would be, here's the law, do it and you will live. But because He's a shepherd, come and fulfill everything for us. He's got to do everything for us. We're sheep. How does he do that? He does it by sending Jesus Christ to live the life we should have lived and die the death we should have died and take the penalty for our sin, which means the salvation of God had to come into the world in weakness. It had to come in through defeat. And here's how you receive it. It's the opposite of the way you receive any other kind of salvation that any philosophy of any religion offers. In every other philosophy of religion, it says, here's how you relate to God. Pull yourself together, man. Be strong. And then say, God, accept me because of what I've done. But the gospel is, admit that you're not together. Admit that you're weak. And say, God, you're going to have to relate to me because of what he's done.

And so it's exactly the opposite. And as a result, as Walter Brueggemann says, says, and he's a great commentator on Genesis. He says, Why is it that Jacob refuses to switch his hands? Why does he put his right hand on the one that the world rejects, or the world says, that's the unimportant one, that's the impotent one, that's the one, that's not how things get done. Why does he do that? And here's what Brueggemann says. Jacob refuses because he knows the God who, in the end, walks with the crucified one and who leads the band of all those excluded by the claims of primogeniture, merit, and reason. Now, okay, let's take a look and see what's going on here. Joseph is still thinking like the world. Joseph still likes the older kid. Joseph is still thinking like the world. And Jacob has finally gotten over it. But when I say finally, I mean this. He's finally let the gospel of grace affect the way he views social reality. finally let the gospel of grace affect the way he looks at class, at birth order, at everything. Now, it took a long time. Jacob experienced the grace of God years ago, but he continued to be like Joseph. He still liked the pretty over the ugly. He still liked the children, for example, of Rachel over the children of Leah. It took years and years and years, but at the end, it suddenly started to dawn on him. If I'm a sinner saved by grace, if I'm saved and I am no better in any way than the people who are not saved or anyone else who is saved, if I'm a sinner saved by sheer grace, that's got to change the way I look at any other race, any other class of people. If I'm educated, I see uneducated people, and I'm not, how would I feel superior to them. In other words, social reality has been changed because he's learned to look at it through the gospel of grace. It took years. Joseph isn't there yet. Are you there? Let me tell you. It's one thing, and there's plenty of people at Redeemer who've experienced the grace of God. It's another thing to take the grace of God and turn it into a worldview that affects the way you look at absolutely everything. Let me give you just two quick examples. If the gospel has become a worldview, it means instead of just pitying the poor and having compassion for the poor, you respect the poor and you serve the poor. What's the difference? Let me just give you a quick example. I just remember some years ago, it had a big impact on my thinking, that I got to know some people who were part of a great church of middle-class people that moved in Philadelphia. They moved into an inner city area. And they looked around. They decided, what does this group of this poor neighborhood need? And they decided to set up a medical clinic, a free medical clinic. And the medical clinic was staffed well and run well. And they raised the money for it. And they got it started. And they were very excited about it. And then what happened was after months, it was open for months, and virtually nobody was coming. So they went out to start asking the questions. ask us what we wanted. You didn't put us on your board. You didn't involve us in the process of

making a decision and thinking it out. Why not? Well, the answer was that though they had compassion for the poor, they didn't think of that. They thought of the poor as children. I mean, these people are uneducated. I mean, it wasn't that gross. It wasn't that out there that kind of superiority. It wasn't out there. But the fact is, if you go to a typical college in the Northeast United States, you're going to be told over and over again, we ought to care about the poor. And listen, it doesn't take any spiritual change to be a liberal-minded person and care about social justice and care about the poor. It's another thing when you actually get to meet them, to have had such a transforming spiritual experience that in spite of everything you've been taught, you do not feel superior to them. You look at them as equals. You look at them as partners. Do you understand that? Has the gospel of grace changed your understanding of social reality so that you're not turned off by the poor, so that you're really not paternalistic toward them, or broken people, or hurting people? Let me give you one more, and I was asked to do this one because we've talked about this in our small group leaders

recently. A couple of years ago, somebody said, you know, it's interesting, the Christian singles at Redeemer, and there's a lot of them,

they're really not that different than everybody else in Manhattan. And I said, what are you talking about? He said, well, it's very simple. He says, in most of Manhattan, the men wouldn't even think about dating any woman who's overweight, any woman who's not really good looking. And the women would not even think about dating any man who's not on a pretty good looking career track. And it's no different inside the church than it is outside the church. Now, I don't know all that's behind that statement. I don't know what the history of that person is. I don't know that it's completely fair. But in general, here's what I think. I think that's right. You know why? It's one thing to experience God's grace. It's another thing to look at people differently because through the lens of God's grace, you view social reality different. You know the reason why the average Christian single cannot bear to even think about looking at somebody with wonderful character and deep spirituality but who really isn't very cool, not very polished, doesn't look very good. You know why they won't even think about it? Because your self-esteem can't handle dating somebody like that. Oh, what is your self-esteem on them. If you're a sinner, saints, by grace, you have not learned to look at social reality different. It's one thing to experience God's grace. It's another thing to use it as lenses that change the way you look at everything. So on the one hand, by refusing to put his right hand on the bigger kid, the more talented kid, you see, the older, the bigger, the more slender, the prettier, the richer. Instead, he won't do it that way. In the world, the first is first, the last is last. But in God's economy, the first will be last, the last will be first. So first of all, Jacob is seeing social reality differently. But secondly, Jacob is also seeing his personal reality differently. Joseph has plans.

Joseph has plans for Manasseh. And he's got plans for Ephraim. He's clearly got plans for his family. And Jacob is saying God is not going to give you the life you want. God's not going to do things the way you have planned. God is going to thwart your agenda. See, here's Joseph saying, Father, no, no, no, no. And Jacob is saying, yes.

When Jacob looks back on his life and says what he says in verse 16, we see an astonishing, I think an astonishing statement. In verse 16 he says, He says, may the God who has been my shepherd all my life. Do you know what kind of life Jacob has had? Let me survey it for you. He was raised by a father who didn't love him. So that just distorted and warped and, you know, poisoned his whole life psychologically. Then he worked 20 years for Laban, who exploited him, manipulated him, cheated him, from him constantly. Then he was forced to marry a woman he didn't love. Then he finally did marry a woman he did love, and she died within just a few years in childbirth. Finally, the light of his eyes, Joseph, out of jealousy, the rest of his children sell Joseph as a slave and then lie and tell Jacob that he is dead. So Jacob spends the last 15, 20 years of his life in clinical depression. father doesn't love him, an uncle who exploits him, the love of his life who dies almost right after they get married, clinical depression over what he thought was the other love of his life being taken away from him forever. And he has the audacity to go back and look at his life and say, at every spot, all of my life, I was under the care of a loving shepherd. shepherd. See, Jacob was a professional shepherd. Jacob knows whereof he speaks. And Jacob knows that on the one hand, shepherds are always doing the best for the sheep, but the sheep don't know it. Do you have an image? Some of you probably do because, you know, in Sunday school and a lot of other kinds of biblical literature for children, one of the in illustrations is the shepherd bringing home the lost sheep over his shoulders. You know, it's based on the parable of the lost sheep in Luke 15. There, Jesus tells this great story about the shepherd who has a hundred sheep, but one is lost, and he leaves the 99 and goes off to find the lost sheep, and finds the lost sheep and brings him home. And I don't know what you was a kid, this is how I imagined it happening, that the poor little sheepy was out there and he couldn't find his way home. He says, oh, if only my shepherd would come and get me. And then suddenly the shepherd comes around the corner and the sheep jumps up and down and frolics, oh, my shepherd, you found me, now I'll be all right, and jumps into the shepherd's arms and the shepherd hugs and cuddles it and puts it over his shoulders and comes home rejoicing. Now, I'd like you to wipe that whole picture out of your mind now that I have just painted it in. Would you listen to the Here is a minister who used to be a professional shepherd, and this is what he says about finding lost sheep. A sheep, he says, is a stupid animal. Sheep proverbially follow one another and lose their direction continually in a way that cats and dogs do not. But even when they are found, they are never happy to be found. It is extremely difficult to round up a lost sheep and bring it home unless you have a dog to scare it. A very big dog.

How do you love a sheep? How do you save a sheep from death? How do you love and you save a sheep?

you seize it, you cast it on the ground you tie it up, you pull it home struggling in other words, that's how you love a sheep the sheep never feels loved when it's being loved the sheep never feels safe when it's being made safe and Jacob knows all that, he was a professional shepherd and that's what's so touching and moving about him being the one who originates really in the Bible this whole theology. Because he has taken the shepherd grid and put it down in his life. The night that he experienced the grace of God was the night he didn't see God as just a king and me as a subject, but he saw himself as a sheep in complete need of comprehensive care and God as a shepherd. And now he's taking that grid and he's laying it down in his life and he's looking at all those places and he's thinking, you know all those places when I thought God had abandoned me, that God was harming me, that God was hurting me, that God was doing bad by me, I was wrong. I was wrong. He was my loving shepherd.

Always was my loving shepherd. But sheep never feel loved when they're being loved. Sheep never feel safe being made safe when they're being made safe. Never. And he says, now I see it. And now I realize that no matter what's happening in my life, when God It's the shepherd doing that. So what he has been able to do is he's sitting loose to his life. Jacob is finally, through the lenses of God's grace, looking at his life, and instead of saying, why has God let this happen? Why has God let that happen? Now, through the lenses of God's grace, he is able to say, by grace, thy will be done. And what peace comes from that. that. What incredible peace comes from that. Don't you see, if you take the gospel and look at social reality, no longer do certain people look really cool and other people look really stupid, we just talked about that. But when you take the gospel as a lens and you look at your personal reality, you see, if in the history of the world, God has, especially in Jesus Christ, if in the history of the world God has done his saving work through defeat, suffering, pain, and confusing,

inexplicable, tragic, difficult situations, if he has worked in history like that, wouldn't it make sense that sometimes he'll work in your life, your life like that?

And see, but he's a shepherd. and he's bringing you home.

Now, you say, I wish I could believe that. Some of you are saying, right now I do feel like something is casting me on the ground, seizing me, tying me up. But how can you know he's the shepherd? How can you know there's love behind it? How can you know he's doing everything for me? Well, I tell you this. I do not know how Jacob knew. There is a fascinating spot here in verse 17, I think, when it says, the angel who delivered me from all harm. Now, the word that he's used for delivered there is a Hebrew word, the word goel. And it's really the word for redeem. And it was a word that was used in those days to refer to what happened when a person got into such debt, incurred a debt fair and square that was so large that it was bigger than your net worth. And so that you could not pay the debt you owed, and you were about to lose absolutely everything and go into indentured servanthood. And the goel was a member of your family who would come and out of his or her own substance would pay the debt you owed and deliver you from slavery. free. And for Jacob to say, on that night, the angel of the Lord redeemed me, that's the word he's using. He must have sensed that somehow he was getting a blessing he didn't deserve, that somehow God had made good the debt. In other words, he had a general spiritual intuition that somehow what God was doing for him was so costly to him and was, that it proved to Jacob that God loved him. I don't know how he trusted. I don't know how he knew that though he was being cast to the ground, seized, tithed up, that it was a shepherd behind it who loved him. I don't know how he knew it, but I know how you can know it. We have no excuse, because in John chapter 10, these are the words of Jesus. He says, I am the good shepherd. The hired hand, when he sees the wolf coming, runs away, but I lay down my life, I lay down my life for the sheep. Jesus is the only shepherd who became a sacrificial lamb. Behold the Lamb of God that taketh away the sin of the world. And here's what Jesus is saying to you. He says, I am the good shepherd. I am huge and I am great and I am transcendent and I am surpassingly sweet and you can be sure that I will do anything for you. And you say, how do I know? The answer is, because he says, I have done anything for you. You can know I will do anything for you because I already have. I lost my glory. I lost my father. I lost my life. I lost everything so I wouldn't lose you. See, I don't know how Jacob knew that God was a shepherd. That all of his life he had been the object of loving shepherdly care. But I know how you can know it.

So you have, and we have, I have, we have no excuses.

by God's grace you've got to be able to say thy will be done and get the peace that comes from that you know

there's no better way to intimacy no better way to intimacy with God than to have something horrible happen in your life that makes you really doubt God's love and go to him anyway and say to him, by God's grace, thy will be done. You say, how can I say that? You know, Mother Teresa, no, pardon me, Teresa of Avila, who lived in the 16th century, she was writing a letter to one of her nuns who was saying, I'm not experiencing intimacy with God in prayer. And some of you may know that Teresa of Avila was one of the great doctors of the church, one of the great teachers on prayer. But this is what she said to her sister. sister. She said, we complain of feeling dryness in prayer, but you do not need some formula or other mysterious thing to attain it. Embrace the cross your spouse bore on his shoulders.

And remember that intimacy in prayer comes from willing to do the will of God. And I know what she means. What she means is, instead of saying, why don't I have a sense of God. He said, when it's hard, pray anyway. When it's hard, obey anyway. When you feel like you're being seized and thrown to the ground, just say, thy will be done. And you know what's going to happen? It'll push you into an intimacy you never had because you'll have to get to know him as a shepherd. You know, if you've been wounded and you say, Lord, I want you to heal me, but it doesn't look like you're getting healed, then the only way through it is to say, well, well, God, evidently you want a wounded me in this world to do certain things and to be a certain person and to get certain things done that I couldn't get done unless I was wounded. What are those things? You see, the only way you're going to get through anything is intimacy. To say, thy will be done by the grace of God is a way of intimacy.

Do you see him as your shepherd?

of God's grace to your eyes, and now you're beginning to look at everything differently? That's the reason why this is the triumph of grace. It's one thing to believe in God's grace. It's another thing to experience God's grace. But the highest thing, the hardest thing, the thing that will take all of your life is to learn to look at absolutely everything through the gospel and see everything differently because of the gospel. Do it. I hope it doesn't take you to age 130, which is, by the way, how old Jacob was. it doesn't have to take it all that time, but it does take time. Begin the journey now. Stay in or enter the Christian community and learn what all this means. Let's pray. Thank you, Father, for giving us the time to consider this great promise. And the promise is that the gospel changes the way we look at everything. It gives us an upside-down view of the world's values. It gives us a peace that passes all understanding when it comes to looking at our own lives and the things that are going on in our lives. We ask, therefore, that you would teach us how to see with the eyes of grace everything differently. No matter how weak our physical eyes are, we pray that by your Spirit, our spiritual eyes will be growing more and more filled with insight deeper and deeper in their ability to penetrate beyond the superficial and so we ask that you would just get all these things done our lives through your spirit because we ask for it in Jesus
