In fact, I asked my local music director and expert, Tom Jennings, I said, what's the difference between rhythm and blues music and gospel music? And he said, when Aretha sings Precious Lord, it's gospel. When she sings Respect, it's called rhythm and blues. But it's the same music. And what's interesting to me, and you're going to see this tonight, is because it's the same music, even when the subject is a secular subject, this particular kind of music, because it was born in communal worship, can convey transcendent joy in a way that I don't know any other form can. So the subject tonight, which is one of those perennial human questions, is joy, happiness, and the issues surrounding it. What is it? How do you get it? Now, we're going to play through it without any kind of interruptions tonight. I'm not going to be…this isn't like an opera open form where you have to sort of give the context and so on, just a couple of things to notice. Some of the songs, like for example, Love and Happiness, which is the first song, talks actually about the dark side of joy. It talks about that we have such a need for joy that it makes us vulnerable and we're willing to do things that we shouldn't. There are several here that go at joy in a typical way. For example, Overjoyed and Joy, which is the setting of a Langston Hughes song, and Happiness by Lorraine have to do with the fact that we find in our romantic relationships very often people look to love for joy. When you listen, though, to the Lorraine Ferro song, listen carefully because it's difficult to tell whether God is being addressed or whether a lover is being addressed, which reminds us of how hard it is to keep those two things separate. And as Freud said, he thought that, you know, religiosity was just pent-up sexuality, but I think it's probably more likely that sexuality is pent up religiosity and a desire for spiritual experience. The last thing is when we get to the very end of – I mean, not the last, but you'll find several of these things are just plain gospel spirituals. And in there we see the celebration of the oldest rooted – the oldest roots of the African-American music, which said the solution to the joy problem is the message of the Christian gospel. Now, one of the things that's difficult to do the first time you hear it is not to immediately be caught up with the surface. What I've been doing for the last couple of weeks, I've been living with the music that you heard tonight, living with the words, living with the and also living with the sound of it. And I would suggest to you that there's three themes in the music, three themes, three things that I call out of it for us tonight. The first is that there's a joy vacuum that's very deep in the human heart. Secondly, therefore, there are joy strategies that every human being has got. You've got some way of trying to fill that joy vacuum. Everybody's using strategies. You might have this one or that one. but there are joy strategies, and lastly, the music, especially as we're going to talk about this, African-American music has a solution for the joy vacuum, so there's a joy vacuum, there are particular strategies for dealing with that vacuum, and then lastly, there's a solution for it, now, first of all, one of the things that comes out in the music, one of the things that comes out, is that there is such a deep desire, and actually a deep joy in the human heart that it makes us radically vulnerable. It was hard, you know, the Yankees season is over, and when that happened, when they lost, I couldn't help but remember one of the worst days of my entire life in 1964, in the summer of 64, when I was 13, and that was the summer that I followed the Philadelphia Phillies every pitch, every at-bat. I was absolutely engaged. I'd been into some of the games, and I was utterly engaged. And they were in first place, after years and years of frustration as a team, they were in first place, six games ahead of the second place team, with only 12 games to go. And they lost 10 in a row. And partly because Gene Mock, the coach, decided to pitch Jim Bunning and Chris Short every other day. Remember Jim Bunning? He Senator of Kentucky, so he rebounded, but I never did. I never did. Because when they lost, I was, yeah, of course I wept and wept, and of course it was months before I felt better, but it was actually a watershed for me. It was the first time I realized that when a human heart locks onto something for its daily joy, if anything goes wrong with it, if anything goes wrong with it, There's an implosion. Now, I use that word. I didn't say explosion. There's an implosion. Here's what I mean by that. When the human heart locks onto something for its daily joy, it locks onto it with a kind of suction that is so incredible, that is so powerful, you don't realize how powerful it is unless something goes wrong, and then there is an inward implosion. There's almost a collapsing in on itself. I hardly got over it. Now, you laugh. I laugh, too. Ha-ha. Kids. Yes, you can look back at your own 13-year-old self, and you see the crushes. You see the celebrity worship. You see the sort of thing that you did, and you say, oh, yes, kids. They'll learn. And we did. We learned. We learned not to be so obvious.

We learned not to look so stupid again. But I would like to submit, and I think not just this music, but virtually, I mean, it's common sense. I would submit to you that in spite of the fact that our grown-up selves hide not only from other people, but really even from our own consciousness, we hide the degree to which there is this enormous vacuum lock that we've put onto the things that we are pursuing for joy. We're pursuing them. We're pursuing them with incredible intensity.

goes wrong with the things that we have locked onto, there's this enormous inward implosion. In other words, as adults, we're still doing the same thing. We really are. Now, let's extend the metaphor. And you say, why is this? Why is this? Extend the metaphor for a second. The metaphor I used is that of an implosion. Here's why. A system, in order to be a system, needs to keep equilibrium. and if a system loses some element that it needs to be a system, it creates a vacuum, it creates a disequilibrium, and if that thing is large enough, the system starts to suck in, the system starts to make an enormous pool, a whirlpool, or a vacuum pool, and it begins to pull everything possible in order to deal with the disequilibrium, to fill the vacuum, to come back to stasis, to come back to equilibrium. The most radical examples of this sort of thing, of an inward implosion that comes because there's a missing element in the system, is the black hole. Black holes are literally black holes in that black holes are when a star collapses, that part of the universe, the system is so, there's such an incredible disequilibrium that it begins to suck down everything and even light itself. aren't seeing anything because it's not just sucked in all matter but even all light.

The human heart, when it comes to joy, is analogous. There is something missing, and you don't realize how large it is until something goes wrong with the things that you've locked onto. Then you begin to realize there's this enormous vacuum. There's an enormous There's an enormous hole. There's an enormous disequilibrium in us. We are basically enormously unhappy. That's the only way to explain that.

So first of all, and of course the songs talk about it all the time, there's a joy vacuum, something huge missing. Now because of that, there are joy strategies. Every human being on the face of the earth has a way of dealing with that vacuum. And I would like to break this down. I'm not saying these are all the strategies there are. I certainly am not trying to make this claim, but I like to break them down to help us understand them, and actually, most of them were even in the music. Basically, I'll break them into two categories. There's naive primary strategies, and there are precarious secondary strategies for joy. There's naive primary and precarious secondary. Now, first of all, the naive primary. Now, what do I mean by the naive primary?

Basically, we start out, unless you've had an enormously unhappy childhood Some people have. So you never actually have a naive primary strategy. We'll get to the secondary ones in a second. But most of us start out believing, because our cultures tell us this, that being happy is going to be a relatively simple thing. See, every culture has a happiness myth. Every culture has a joy myth. Every culture. You wouldn't be a culture unless there wasn't a reigning myth or view or strategy of how to be a happy person that was put forth in that culture. Every culture's got a main way. It tells you, if you do this, then you will be happy. That's one of the things that differentiates cultures from one another. Now, there are as many, in a sense, there actually are as many joy strategies than there are cultures, but I would like to write today, I think I can divide them, roughly speaking, into two. There are traditional cultures. And in traditional cultures, you're basically told this. you'll be happy if you assume the role we assign you in our culture. You'll be happy if you assume, if you take the role that we assign you. So, in traditional cultures, you'll be happy if you're a good husband or a good wife, if you're a good father or mother to your children, if you are a son or daughter to your parents, if you are a good patriotic citizen to your country, and so on. so in traditional cultures, they say if you are willing to fit in, if you're willing to assume the role we assign you in our culture, you'll be a perfectly happy person, no problem, in contemporary cultures, though, in contemporary culture, we have something else, contemporary culture says you'll be happy if you create the role in society you want, if you figure out what your dream is, and then you find it, and then you pursue it, and then you fulfill it. It's very, very different. In other words, not assume the role we give you, but create the role you want. And in each culture, each kind of culture, when you grow up, there are just tons and tons and tons of popular-level stories that get this across, and they basically give you a very strong impression that it's not all that hard. For example, in traditional cultures, there are just tons and tons of stories that are examples of how you can live happily ever after if you get that right family, the white picket fence. But in the contemporary culture today, if you just watch television, there's myth after myth, story after story that basically says, you can be anything you want to be. Like the movie Babe, you can be anything you want to be. You're a pig. You want to be a sheepdog. You can do it. And it's the same thing as Father Knows Best. It's just a different culture.

Now, you know, what's interesting is if you, and I know this is because this is New York, a lot of you actually live at the intersection of these two cultural myths. For example, if you live at the intersection, one of the myths says you assume the role, you know, fit in. The other says create and be the person you want to be. Now, if you live on the intersection of these two myths, you have a great, you know, you have actually great material for a movie, example, My Big Fat Greek Wedding, or even Sweet Home Alabama, are about people who live on the intersection of both traditional culture that says one thing, here's how you're happy, and then contemporary culture says here's another thing how you're happy. Now, of course, they make comedies out of it, but basically it's actually not that funny if you actually live on the intersection of those two. But here's what's interesting. They are both naive. All of these cultural myths are naive, and here's what I mean. First of all, they're simple. They say, look, it's not that hard. It really isn't, because all the stories, all the TV shows, all the fairy tales or whatever, all the stories say, look, it can be done, you can do it. If you just try hard, if you just fit in, or if you really follow your dream, climb every mountain, ford every stream, follow every rainbow, you know, you're a nun, but if you don't want to be, you can be who you want to be. In other words, there are just thousands and thousands of messages coming out to the residents of each of these various cultures saying, it's not that hard. in the sense that they're simple, and they're also naive in that they have to do with concrete things. You will find happiness in concrete circumstances and things. You got to get that right, you know, in the traditional culture, you got to get that right husband, you got to get that right wife, you got to get that right little dream house, you got to get, but of course, it's the same thing in contemporary culture. You say you got to get that success, you got to get access to the circles of power, or whatever. Basically, they're both naive, they say if you can get the right things, if you can get the right circumstances, heart, you can be happy. They're naive strategies because eventually almost everybody, sooner or later, comes to realize they don't work. We outgrow them. Almost everybody abandons them. Now, there's two ways that it happens. There's two ways, two things, two kinds of things that eventually show us that these are sham. They're shams. Happiness is much more elusive than this. is much less concrete and simple as getting your life arranged in certain circumstances. Eventually, you start to realize it's just not true. It's much more elusive. It's much more difficult. Now, there's two kinds of things that finally get us to outgrow naive primary strategies for joy. One is failure, and the other is success. And for most of us, we have one or the other or both, but a few of us never have either, and as a result, we stay naive for a long time. I don't know. Follow me on this. First of all, the first thing that gets real is disappointment. I mean, I just gave you an example of one. You know, you think, sure, things are going to be all right. I'm going to be a happy person. Then you have a disappointment. Even your team, a 13-year-old boy, your team loses. And the first time you experience one of those implosions, the first time you experience that something you really set your heart on, it doesn't, wrong with it. And next thing you know, you experience this utter implosion, this collapse, this enormous inward vacuum. And you begin to say, wait a minute, I'm a lot unhappier than I thought. This is not going to be easy. Now, I want to say for a lot of us, the first time this dawns on us is maybe not when our teams lose the World Series. A lot of it's the first time we break up with somebody we really care about. And one of the things we hide from the people around us, in fact, degree, not until years later do we even hide it from ourselves, is how absolutely desperate, pointless, and meaningless life looks. What an incredible implosion that happens, whether we did the breaking up or not. In other words, disappointment is the first thing that comes along and shows us, wait a minute, we're a lot less happy. Joy is a much more complex and difficult thing. This is nowhere near as easy as my cultural myth told me it was going to be. So the first thing that does it is, you know, a disappointment. But the second thing that gets us out of the naive phase is success. Now, fewer people experience success than failure. But the ones who do, and especially the ones who really do, who really do, actually more quickly get out of the naivete than anybody else. This is hard for us to understand, those of us who have not experienced a great deal of success,

they look down from the heights and they don't want anyone to know how absolutely empty they are I mean, you know, I have two favorite examples of them one of them, though, my favorite example is something that actually it was a column I found in the Village Voice just five months after I moved to New York and this column helped me understand New York tremendously over the years, helped me understand people Help me understand myself to some degree. Help me understand, you know, the force field in New York. Because there are certain joy strategies here, of course, obvious, that are pretty dominant. But Cynthia Heimel, who used to write in the Village Voice a column called Tongue in Chic, Chic, C-H-I-C, January 2nd, 1990, she writes this, and this is really pretty devastating. Devastating. She said, I pity celebrities. No, I really do. Sylvester Stallone, Bruce Willis, and Barbara Streisand, I used to know them, and they were once perfectly pleasant human beings. But now their wrath is awful. I think when God wants to play a really rotten practical joke on you, he must grant you your deepest wish, and then he giggles merrily when you realize you want to kill yourself. You see, Sly, Bruce, and Barbara wanted fame. They worked, they pushed, and the famous, they wanted to take an overdose. Because that giant thing they were striving for, that fame thing that was going to make everything okay, that was going to make their lives bearable, that was going to provide them with personal fulfillment and happiness, had happened, and they were still them. The disillusionment turned them howling and insufferable. Now, I have no idea whether Cynthia Heimel really knew those people, and this might be a little but I think what she was saying is, I know what they're like, I know, what she's talking about is the fact, and this is something that cannot in any way be denied, is the fastest way to get rid of your, the naivete that you think that happiness is possible, that happiness is doable, that happiness is simple, that you basically are a happy person, and basically being happy is not a difficult thing in life, is to get successful. Disappointment or success, Either way, depends on how successful you are and actually how disappointed you are, people sooner or later eventually drop their naive thought that happiness is a simple thing, that they're going to be able to be happy through the normal kinds of cultural myth strategies, and they move from naive primary strategies to what I call precarious, unstable secondary strategies. In other words, they begin to realize, I am not happy. This is not working. I'm doing what they told me, I'm doing what everybody told me, and I'm not happy, and I'm getting worse all the time, and when that begins to happen, you move from naive primary strategies into what I'm calling precarious, unstable, secondary strategies, now, I'm going to give you three, once you begin to realize that I'm deeply unhappy, and the things they told me would make me happier not doing it, you go into these, and I'll just give you three that I know of, and I'm sure there's more, maybe afterwards in the question and answer next time I give a talk like this and I'll add them. But here's the three I know. One of them I call the switch strategy. Now, this is pretty simple. The switch strategy is you're in one cultural myth and you say, well, it's not working. I guess I'll go to the other one. So it's very simple. You've been living in Tennessee or Georgia or a place like that, and you've been doing the traditional approach, and it's not working. And suddenly, to the shock of everybody in your community, you dump everything. You dump all your commitments. You run off to New what back there they think is a wild and licentious life. Now, they used to call this midlife crisis. I haven't seen this term in an awful long time, but anyway, everybody says, what happened to them, and what happened to them was they're doing the switch strategy. They say, you know, it's not working, it's not working, and they told me that this is how I'd be happy, I'm not happy, I'll try the other one. Now, by the way, it does work in reverse, and there are people who have been in New York for years, all of a sudden drop out and go out, and they try the traditional strategy, and all their friends in New York said, what happened to them? What happened to them?

switch strategy, but it won't be long. It's an effort to try to stay naive, but you're not. Second strategy is I'll call just the frantic. The second secondary strategy is what I call the frantic strategy, and the frantic strategy is let's take the old naive strategy and just turn it up five notches. In other words, I'm unhappy, but it must be because I'm not trying hard enough. I'm unhappy with the things and circumstances in my life, it's because they're not good I need a better spouse. I need a better job. I need a bigger house. Now, what's interesting about this approach, which is simply to say, yeah, it hasn't worked, but I'm just going to do it. I'm going to work at it five times harder, ten times harder. What's interesting about this strategy, it can stay, how do I say it? You can keep a pretty, you can actually keep a fairly good equilibrium for a long time, because if you do it frantic enough, and in New York you do, If you stay really busy, you stay really, really, really busy, running around trying to make progress and be successful and do all the things you want to do, you don't have time to reflect. You don't have time to even realize it's not working. And you can stay at that level for a good long time until you crash. But you will crash. You know, what's interesting is what Cynthia Heimel said is that there is, that vacuum is so huge that it's very much like a black hole, in that it's possible to put in there incredible celebrity and incredible amounts of money, and you not feel any happier than before, it's like a black hole, you're putting 20 truckloads of celebrity and 20 truckloads of wealth into that hole, you're driving it in, and when you're all done, you look in the hole, and it's just as empty as it was before, that's a black hole that's an incredible disequilibrium that's an incredible implosion and vacuum so you have the switch strategy you have the frantic strategy now thirdly here's the here's the third secondary strategy that's widely used in new york city and that is the cynic strategy now the cynical strategy has had has had several stages in history the older one used to be called stoicism marcus aurelius and the cynical strategy was us, is let's just admit that this world is a fraud. Let's just admit that this world is not going to give you your heart's desires, so let's do something about the heart. We've been doing something about the world, we've been saying, let's get the world in place, let's change the world, let's do this, let's do that, let's get my circumstances different, but wait a minute, maybe the world just can't possibly fulfill my desires, so let's do something about the heart. Now, what the Stoics did was they had their own particular way of sort of hardening the heart so that you didn't feel this enormous disparity between what you wanted out of life and what it would give you. But nowadays, we've got something a little more sophisticated.

It has been so well expressed in Albert Camus' book, The Myth of Sisyphus, incredibly sophisticated expression of the cynical approach to life. How do you deal with life? life, when you know there's this enormous disparity between what you want out of it, your heart wants out of it, and what the world will give. And the myth of Sisyphus is obviously based on the old Greek legend of the gods having punished a man by Sisyphus, of course, by putting him into Hades. And there they sentenced him for all eternity to roll a stone up a hill. And his job was to get that stone to the top of the hill where it would stay. And of course, for all No matter what he did, no matter how far up the hill he would get it, at the very last minute, always the stone would elude his grasp and break his grasp, or something like that, and roll on back to the bottom. And what Camus said was this, let's admit that life is meaningless. If you have in your heart desires that life can't possibly fulfill, this world can't possibly fulfill your desire for perfect love. This world can't possibly fulfill your desire to last and to live forever, what you want, or you're not going to be happy. Camus says so. Camus says if you will only admit that what your heart wants, the world can't possibly give, and therefore the world is meaningless, he says finally you're an adult. Every other approach to happiness is childish. You're crying after the moon, you're trying to arrange the world, you're saying it's not the world, it's my spouse, it's not the world, it's I'm not trying hard enough, it's not the to change cultures. It's not the world. It is the world, he says. The world is meaningless. It's time to stop crying over spilled milk. It's time to be strong. Now, you know, I have to, I've always had enormous respect for Camus because I think he's enormously honest, much more honest than most people. But practically speaking, this approach comes out like this. In New York City, city, the way you steal your heart against the enormous disparity between what your heart wants and what the world will give, is that you make fun of everybody else who doesn't see it.

You make fun of everybody else who ever, who doesn't see it. Um, you prick their balloons, you make fun of sentimentality, you make fun and you laugh at movies or stories with happy endings, you refuse to let Steven Spielberg get an Oscar until he makes Schindler's list. you do everything you possibly can to deconstruct every truth claim every claim to right and you say well that's just a power grab that's really just this you try to see through everything ah yes they say this but it's really just that ah yes they say but it's really it really comes down to that you deconstruct everything you debunk everything you see through everything which is a problem I tell you if you are bright and if you're able to be a movie or art critic and you can be a lot of fun to read. But in the long run, as a life strategy, when you have given up seeking any joy beyond what your heart has right now, you stop living and you just start existing. And you start to dehumanize. You not only become dehumanized yourself, you're really dehumanizing others. You're debunking everything, laughing at everything. That's the way you're dealing with this deep disappointment. it is not working. When you stop seeking a joy beyond what you have, you stop living and you start existing.

C.S. Lewis, at the one place in the book, The Abolition of Man, he puts it like this. He says, you can't go on explaining away everything forever or you will find that you have explained explanation itself away. You can't go on seeing through things forever. The whole point of seeing through something is to see something else beyond it. See, it's a good thing that you can see through a window, but that's only because you can see the garden, and the garden is opaque. But if you really could see through absolutely everything, if everything was transparent, you'd have an invisible world, and therefore, to see through everything is the same as not to see. To see through everything, can you imagine what he's saying? He says, let's just think this out, you know, in terms of the actual, if you really could see through everything, you'd be blind, you see nothing. And to debunk everything and to take apart everything, to make fun of everyone else who doesn't feel just as poignantly as you the enormous disparity between what your heart wants and what the world will give it, to make fun of everybody who doesn't see it, is to stop living, start existing, to harden yourself and dehumanize yourself. Well, what is the solution then? These are the strategies. And here you move from naive primary various unstable secondary strategies, there are only so many of them, what are we going to do?

Well, I would suggest that rather than listening to me, though you are, we listen to the art form that we enjoy tonight. I've been doing some meditating on the African-American music that we listen to tonight. As I mentioned, I think at the beginning, some of the songs were old, old, classic, historic gospel spirituals. Some of them had very secular themes and so on, but the very form of rhythm and blues, gospel, even jazz, actually, the very form of that music that came out of those African-American roots, they didn't come out of just African-American roots, they came out of worship, it came out of communal African-American worship, and as a result, there's a transcendent joy about it, and I'll bet you tonight, night. Some of you are here, and your joy strategies are not working terribly well, and yet the music took you out of them, didn't it? It took you out of them for a little bit, and you partook, you became a partaker with the joy that was at the origin of this music. This music was begun with a transcendent joy that came through worship of God, and even in its most secular form, it points you back in that direction. See, African American music, all forms are so respected in this culture and yet nobody will listen to its prophetic voice, I think, sometimes because it tells you what to do with the, how to deal with the joy vacuum. It tells you, especially the oldest ones. You know the one that Calvin sang that you all enjoyed so much? Did you actually listen to the words? There's only one line. It was a meditation. There's only one line can i tell you what it said would you listen to the word of the prophet it said this i get joy when i think about what he's done for me that's all you hear over and over and over you know what it said i get joy when i think about what he's done for me and there it is please don't look down your nose at the simplicity of this i get joy when i think about what he's done for me. Look, there it is. Number one, I get joy when I think about he, him. And this is the answer to the question, the answer to the, to, this is the explanation to why the vacuum we experience inside is so huge. Why you can put celebrity in it. Why you can become Bruce Willis or Barbra Streisand. Why you can become a billionaire. You can put anything in there and it seems to vanish. It doesn't satisfy. Why not? Well, St. Augustine puts it like this. In his famous line in chapter 1, book 1 of his book Confessions, he says, We take joy in praising you, O Lord, for you have made us for yourself, and our heart is restless until it finds its rest in you. I mean, there's the perfect explanation. First of all, he says, we were built for you. In other words, we were a system. Our souls were a system built for you. And if God is out of the system, that's an infinite-size hole, and it's an infinite-size vacuum. vacuum, and that's the reason why you could put anything but God into the center of your life and it not satisfy, because nothing but God will put the system back in equilibrium. That's what Augustine said. That's what the African-American spiritual said.

I get joy when I think about him. But secondly, it doesn't just say that, you know, actually, and they never say that. I've been looking at a lot of African-American spirituals. They never ever say I get joy when I just think of him in some kind of general way. I get joy when I think of what he's done for me. Let me read you one more. There was an interesting op-ed piece in New York Times this week, I believe, by Joseph Epstein, who's a professor at Northwestern University. And he wrote, this is actually a humorous piece, but he says something in the middle, I think, that is pretty poignant and gets at something that we need to see tonight. night. In his op-ed piece, he says, and I don't know how I put it, he talks about people who like to write books and want to write books, and he says this. He says, according to a recent survey, 81% of Americans feel they have a book in them. My guess is that many people doubtless see writing as a way of establishing their significance. This is great. The search for personal significance was once nicely taken care of in culture by the drama that religion supplied. This drama, which lived in every human breast, no matter what one's social class, was that of salvation. Would one be able to achieve heaven or not? But now that it has gone from so many lives, in place of salvation in our culture, we have the search for significance, which is a much trickier business. You see, if only oblivion awaits us, how does one leave behind evidence How will one's distant progeny know that one once walked the earth? A book, the balmy thought must be, I shall write a book. Forgive me if I suggest that this isn't the most felicitous way to do battle against oblivion. Writing a book is likely through the quickness and completeness with which one's book will go out of print to make the notion of oblivion all the more vivid.

Now, it's a humorous piece and it raises a number of issues, but here's the thing I would like to point out. Now, he says, he talks about how in contemporary culture, the search for happiness and significance is trickier. He's really talking about the fact that traditional culture versus, you know, contemporary culture had two different approaches to happiness, but then he says this, he says, in traditional culture, the traditional culture, here's how you got a sense of significance and happiness, he said, the drama of religion, and what was the drama of religion? It was, would one be able to achieve heaven or not?

Now, that is how religion works. That is how traditional religion works, because religion is a drama because you don't know how you're doing. Will I achieve heaven or not? Will I live a good enough life in order to achieve heaven or not? That's a drama, and that's exactly how traditional religion works. I am not telling you that the solution to your joy vacuum is to get religious, just sort of pray more and try to be a better person and believe in God, and the African-American spirituals don't say that either. The African-American spiritual does not say, I get joy when I think of what I've done for him in order to hopefully someday get to heaven and achieve it, see? That's what Epstein says, achieve heaven. The African-American spiritual says, I get joy when I think of what he's done for me. You see, in traditional religion, do you know why you don't lie? Do you know why you're truthful? Do you know why you're honest? Do you know why you're good? Fear. I'm afraid I won't achieve heaven. So you've got a fear-based life. That's not joy. But the gospel that is so perfectly put in that single line over and over and over again, I get joy when I think of what He's done for me, how Jesus Christ lived the life I should have lived and died the death I should have died, so that I am accepted by God, not because of what I've done for him, but because of what he's done for me, when I think of that, when I say that he's accepted me because of what Jesus has done, that's the gospel, now why don't I lie? Not fear, joy. Now why do I live a good life? Not fear, joy. Well, now why do I do everything? The joy of wanting to please the one who's done all this for me, the joy of wanting to resemble the one who's done all this for me, the joy of wanting to be near the one who's done all this for me, would you please listen to the words of the prophet? Would you please listen to this music that everybody in this culture just loves so much? Would you please listen to what it actually says? You know, you have to ask Camus this question, why would the heart want something that nothing in this world can fulfill? As C.S. Lewis put it, babies are born wanting milk. There's such a thing as food. Ducklings are born wanting to swim. There's such a thing as water. And if I am born, if I find in myself a desire for something nothing in this world can possibly, possibly give me, then it means I was built for some other world as well. It's almost proof, my joy vacuum is almost proof that there's a God. God, but not just a God in general that I think about, but I get joy when I think of what He's done for me in Jesus. And that is the message of the African American spiritual. Listen to the words of the prophet.
