I'm going to read from John chapter 21. The disciples, after Jesus has been raised from the dead, have gone back to Galilee. They're on the water fishing. And I will read from verse 4 to 17. Early in the morning, Jesus stood on the shore, but the disciples did not realize that it was Jesus. He called out to them, you any fish? No, they answered. He said, throw your net on the right side of the boat and you will find some. And when they did, they were unable to haul the net in because of the large number of fish. Then the disciple whom Jesus loved said to Peter, it is the Lord. As soon as Simon Peter heard him say, it is the Lord, he wrapped his outer garment around him for he had taken it off and he jumped into the water. The other disciple followed in the boat, towing the net full of fish, for they were not far from shore, about a hundred yards. And when they had landed, they saw a fire of burning coals there with fish on it and some bread. Jesus said to them, bring some of the fish you have just caught. Simon Peter climbed aboard and dragged the net ashore. It was full of large fish, 153. But even with so many, the net was not torn. Jesus said to them, Come and have breakfast. None of the disciples dared ask him, Who are you? They knew it was the Lord. Jesus came, took the bread, gave it to them, did the same with the fish. And this was now the third time Jesus appeared to his disciples after he was raised from the dead. When they had finished eating, Jesus said to Simon Peter, Peter, Simon, son of John, do you truly love me more than these? Yes, Lord, you know that I love you, he said. Jesus said, Feed my lambs. And again, Jesus said, Simon, son of John, do you truly love me? He answered, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. Jesus said, Take care of my sheep. The third time he said, Simon, son of John, do you love me? Now Peter was hurt because Jesus asked him the third time, Do you love me? you know all things. You know that I love you. And Jesus said, feed my sheep. This is God's word. Peter, oh Peter, how good you make us feel. Because we can identify with you. Peter, Jesus had said to you, you're going to deny me three times before the cock crows. Three times. You're going to deny you ever knew me. And what did you say? Peter, did you say, Oh Lord, I'm so weak, you're going to have to help me then. Instead, Peter, what did you say? You said, Though all of these would fall. Look at all these other disciples. Though all of these would fall, I will never fall. I will die with you if necessary. That's what you said. and then friends what happened on that night you all know is very famous that Peter followed Jesus at a distance they took him in to the high priest's house and out in the courtyard Peter got around a fire with some other soldiers and other people who were gathered they asked him three times if he was a follower of the one in chains now And he said, no, no, no. You know, in Jesus Christ Superstar, remember? They have Mary Magdalene hearing the denial. And she says, Peter, don't you know what you have said? You've gone and cut him dead. Remember that? And he says, I had to do it, don't you see? Or they'd go for me. It's what he told us you would do. I wonder how he knew. and as soon as Peter denied him the third time Jesus comes out only Luke chapter 22 tells us this Jesus has come out he's being led across the courtyard and he turns to Peter and he looks at him

and at that moment the cock crows and Peter went out and wept bitterly you know what happened to Peter has just given himself the worst wound that a human being can give. The worst wound you can give yourself. There's a place in the great play, Man for All Seasons, by Robert Bolton. And there's a place where Thomas More is saying in the play, Sir Thomas More says to his daughter, He says, Meg, when you make a promise, in a sense you take yourself in your hands like water. And if you open your hands, you'll lose yourself and you'll never find it again. So she was trying to say, break your promise. Don't go to the stake. Don't die for this. Just break your promise. He says, when you make your promise, you're holding yourself in your hand. And if you open your hand, if you let go, if you break it, you've lost not just the promise, you've lost yourself. And that's what had happened to Peter. Peter had made all these claims. in his own mind and his own heart. He had rested himself on his certainty that he was a man of integrity and of courage. And at the moment of crisis, the foundation of his life was laid bare and he was revealed as a coward, as someone who saves his own skin, as someone with no integrity at all. And he sees it, and he has opened his fingers, and he's lost himself. He's gone. He's there, but he's gone. Here's a man who is doomed to lead a completely haunted life. Not only that, but even though all the disciples forsook him, Peter went out of his, in a sense, not out of his way, but Peter in a specifically flagrant way denied him, lied, chickened out. And Peter was a career Christian minister, you know. His career was to be a leader in this great movement. And now he is the last person anyone will follow. His career is ruined. His self-understanding is ruined. He's a haunted man. He's been wounded. He's mortally wounded, spiritually, emotionally. Now, who's going to put Humpty Dumpty back together again? All the king's horses and all the king's men? No, but Jesus in this passage does it. He comes and he shows us that he's the great physician. Back in the book of Numbers, there's a place where God says to Israel, I am the one who healeth thee. And we know, many of us have heard, that Jesus is the great physician. He can heal you. But it's in this passage, I think, you see what kind of physician he is. He's not any kind of physician. he's the worst kind he's a surgeon he's the one that gives us lay people the willies he cuts he goes inside and you know how he does it Jesus always heals to repentance because you see what Peter's problem was he denied the Lord but it was first because he denied what the Lord said about his weakness because he refused to repent He became someone who denied his Lord and lost himself. God, the Lord, Jesus, can heal you, but only heals you as a surgeon. Only heals you through repentance. And by the way, as we look at this, first of all, let me just say to people who might think, well, that sounds awful. That sounds primitive and crude. The idea of trying to heal somebody by making them repent and feel guilty about sin. Come on, this is the 20th century. Are you thinking that? Are you saying the way to heal people is through affirmation and love, not telling them about their sin? Even the word gives you the creeps, maybe. With all due respect, may I say that your objection is like most objections to classic Christianity. It's superficial. It's simplistic. It's naive. If you think that you've got to choose between repentance and love, if you think you've got to choose between repentance and affirmation, You don't understand repentance. And I call you to listen. I call heaven and earth to witness that everybody in this room has denied the Lord and therefore has lost, you have lost yourself. And you are wounded. You've inflicted yourself with the same wound that Peter has. The only difference is some of us wound, we're bleeding outside and we can see it. And a lot of you are bleeding inside and you can't see it. And that's the worst kind of wound. You don't know it's there. Everybody, everybody needs to go to the healer and everybody needs to repent. Let me show you how the great surgeon does his work. First of all, let me tell you what his surgical procedure is. Three steps. First of all, he opens you. Secondly, he finds the tumor. Thirdly, he removes it. And in the same way, repentance has three steps and he's leading Peter through them. The first step, I'll call it step one, you have to open. You can't do anything unless you actually take the plunge. Take the knife, open the body, open the skin. And in the same way, the first step of repentance is to take responsibility. I'm going to call it the responsibility step. Look what Jesus is doing to Peter. There's a kind of gracious violence about what he's doing. It gives you the creeps if you see what he's actually doing. And this is why we have to call him a surgeon. Just like that first cut gives you the creeps. Just to think about it. What does Jesus do? He says, Peter, you denied me three times. I'm going to ask you three times, do you love me? Peter, before when you said stupid things, you compared yourself to the other disciples. And you said, I love you more than these. Now I'm taking you back. And I'm saying, do you really love me more than these? You notice he's trying to say, do you love me more than these? And Peter never says he loves him more than these. Peter says, I love you. Jesus is rubbing his nose in it. Not only that, Peter denied Jesus three times, making all these great claims in front of a fire. Do you notice where Jesus takes Peter to go back and remind him of what he's done? He takes him to a fire. He's sitting around a fire of coals right there in verse 9. What's wrong with Jesus? Doesn't he have any sensitivity? Doesn't he realize how upset Peter must be about all this? Instead, what Jesus does is, in a sense, he gets him by the nape of the neck, and he says, look. Look at what you've done. Calmly, take a full look at it. Name it. Agree to it. In other words, repentance starts when blame shifting ends. This is pretty simple, and yet it's pretty important. You can't start to repent unless you're willing to take responsibility for what's happened. To agree to the reality. To admit the reality of it. To not blame your circumstances or your conditions, but to take it full on your own shoulders. No better illustration of this than the illustration of a log The trouble with logs is they're very long and as a result they're very unwieldy If you've got one end of a log on your back and you've got the other end of the log on the on the ground, so one's resting on the ground the other one's resting on you If you try to throw that log off of yourself you know what's going to happen? It's going to go three inches and come on down and hit you somewhere else because you don't have control over it. You can't master it because you don't have all the weight of it on you. Now, I don't know physics, but all I know is if you're able, as hard as it is, briefly to pull that log up and to lift the entire thing up on yourself so it's not resting on anything but you, even if you can only summons up the strength to do it for a moment, you've got power to heave it. And the same thing is true with your guilt. As long as you're saying, yes, what I did was wrong, but if you had my family, yes, it was wrong, but if you knew my circumstances, but he did this, but she did this, if you blame all of those things, saying, yes, what I did was wrong, but you know what the but means? It means you've got part of the log on the ground. And you know what? Repentance starts when you say, yes, I was mistreated, but I'm miserable because of my responses to the way in which I was treated. I'm miserable and I'm unhappy because of me, not because of what they did. I take responsibility for my actions. In this culture, friends, in this culture, you've got lots and lots and lots of people who are going to give you all sorts of wonderful ways out of this and say you're a victim. You can't help the way you are. You can't help feeling the way you feel Let me remind you that diminished responsibility always means diminished humanity. Children and people who aren't mentally competent, we make excuses. Well, you know, they were rude. That emotional outburst. Well, they're just kids, you see. So you make excuses. They're not responsible. Because they haven't reached their full capacity as human beings. You must take the whole log and put it on yourself. You must be willing to look your sins full in the face and admit that they're sins. Repentance starts where blame shifting ends. And freedom starts when repentance starts. Now, that's only step one. Only step one. He cuts. You see, if this is all repentance was, and maybe some of you think that's all repentance is, of course, this is terrible. What I've told you so far is log up on you even for a minute you know that I can't bear this for long you get that log up there because you're trying to get it off of you have to put it on you before you can get it off of you and only for a minute it just feels excruciating and a lot of you have never gone any further with repentance than that a lot of you have never done anything more than that and so a lot of people think oh that's repentance just telling yourself I am a louse I am guilty It's all my fault. I'm really good at that. And when I've done that, it just crushed me into the ground. Listen, friends, I'm telling you that repentance goes beyond that, but it's more than that, but it's not less than that. You have to start that way, just like surgery has to start with opening up. But if that's all the surgeon does, you're in a lot of trouble. If all the surgeon does is say, that's my job. It's over with now. Maybe, hopefully, hopefully the tumor will leap out. You see, I mean, at least I'm giving it an escape hatch. So let's go, let's just, you know, now let's put the person back in the room and let's see what happens. I mean, that of course would be the death of the person. And some of you have been killed through repentance that just went to step one. Be guilty. Now I'm telling you, you've got to start that way, but that's not all. Then step two. Step two, of course, is the surgeon doesn't just open up. the surgeon finds the trouble spot. The surgeon goes down to the root of things. The surgeon finds out where's the infection, where's the tumor, where's the trouble. And therefore, the second stage of repentance is you don't just take responsibility for your sin, you have to unmask your sin, you have to name your sin, you have to see what it really is at the root. Do you notice that Jesus does not talk about Peter's behavior. Now, what was the actual behavior that Peter did that was wrong? What was his actual transgression? What was the actual sin? He lied, right? And then, of course, it was cowardice, cowardice and dishonesty. Now, do you notice that Peter, Jesus never mentions them. And of course, why? Because he's trying to heal. You know, can you imagine Jesus coming to Peter Are you ever going to lie again? Are you ever going to chicken out again? Are you ever going to do that again now that you know what happens? And you can just see Peter saying, oh no Lord, I feel so awful. I'm never going to lie again. I'm never going to chicken out again. And Jesus says, that's good. Now see, that's the way a lot of people have treated you and that's the way you treat people. That's not repentance. Repentance is not just looking at the surface. The question is, what is the root sin beneath the behavioral sins? That's always the Christian understanding. Christians understand sin as an inward thing. Christians understand sin as a motivational thing before it's a behavioral thing. And therefore, we see Jesus actually saying, Peter, do you love me more than these? And what Jesus is after is he's trying to show Peter, and he's actually getting Peter to denounce something. Peter doesn't just say, do you love me the first time? And then Peter says, of course. But he says, do you love me more than these? And Peter is saying, yes, Lord, I love you. But he's also saying, no, Lord, I don't love you more than these. What Jesus is trying to say is, Peter, have you seen that at bottom it was pride that got you? Peter, don't you see that cowardice is really just a lack of humility? Peter, don't you see that your foundation was that competitiveness? The foundation for your life, the reason you were able to feel that you were a worthwhile person, the foundation for your life was your ability to always look down on other people and say, I'm better than this person, I'm more honest than this person, I'm more decent than this person. Peter, don't you see that I wasn't your foundation, that you had another foundation? And he goes after, he's really trying to show Peter that the heart of sin is a desire to play God and to push God to the margins out of the center. You know, all sin is denying Christ. Every time you sin, what you're saying is, I want that throne back. I don't want you to be ruling over me. I want the mastery. that crown. Get to the margins of my life. I'll let you know when I need you. Every time you decide, I'll lie. Every time you decide, I'll break this or that commandment. I know it's probably not right. But, and when you do that, you're denying him and you're pushing him to the margins. You're not just doing something behaviorally, you're playing God. Self-righteousness being your own savior, self-will, being your own boss, self-centeredness, living for your own glory. And there is what Jesus is saying is the real thing. See, repentance, let me show you this. Repentance always means, Christian repentance always means not just looking at the behavior, but saying, how is this sin really simply some form of me pushing God out of the center of my life? Some years ago, I was counseling a woman in my pastorate back in Virginia. And one of the problems she had was bitterness toward her ex-boss who had fired her and had really hurt her career quite a bit. She'd been fired unfairly. And she was so eaten up with anger that she wanted to take his head off. She didn't even see him, but her life seemed to have been ruined by this, and she couldn't forgive him. So, unfortunately, the two of us spent a few times getting together and essentially shaking our finger at her behavior. It wasn't just me. She did it too. We sat and said, well, the problem is that she's not forgiving, and Christians forgive. It says that in the Bible. It's true, by the way. Christians are supposed to forgive. So we both shook our finger at her and said, to forgive. And for whatever reason, one day God helped us. And one day it was revealed that there was a deeper problem. And she began to realize that the reason that she was so much more mad at her boss than she'd ever been mad at anybody before was because her career was far more important to her than Jesus. She had marginalized the love of God, pushed it to the outside, and said, all that really matters to me is professional advancement. And when she realized that what she'd actually been doing is pushing God away and putting her career in the center, she says, no wonder I'm so mad at my boss. I'll never forget the time, you know, it's a good thing I was a pastor and I wasn't charging her because I wasn't giving her any help. She did a good job on herself. She counseled herself right into health because she was giving herself to Jesus. I'll never forget when she said, hey, I am bitter, but deeper than that, I'm a rebel. I don't want God in the center. I don't want him to be the foundation. I don't really want him to be the savior. I want to save myself through my work. And that's why I'm so mad at that man. And the minute she said that, she had no trouble forgiving him because the great physician had cut all the way down into the tumor. She had unmasked her sin. It wasn't just bitterness. It was her way of playing God. You know, there's so many ways to do that. Some of you know how much I how helped I was one day, and I can't even remember who told me this anymore, but I was sitting there saying, I'm worried, and I know it's a sin to worry, but it didn't help me, just to talk about my behavior. And then somebody said, Oh, what you mean by worry is, you think you know how history ought to go better than God. And when I realized that's what I was doing, I said, Oh my word, that's true. That is what I'm doing. Now what happened? You know, suddenly the knife went down past the surface and I said, you see, just what Jesus did. Always see your sin. If you want to repent, if you want freedom, always unmask the sin so you see it as some way of playing God. Because repentance results in behavior change, but it's not simply stopping a behavior. It's unmasking the sin so it no longer has bewitching power over you. It enables you to see it for what it is. You know, in all the old fairy tales, and even in the new science fiction fairy tales, you always have these monsters who have to take the shape or put forth the image of beauty. As soon as someone gets rid of the force field, or as soon as someone breaks a spell, so you see the monster's true ugliness, 90% of the monster's and the villain's power is gone. All the villain now has is sort of the naked force of its frightful visage. But you see, when it looked beautiful, then it was bewitching. There's a place in Narnia, in the Narnia Chronicles, in the C.S. Lewis Narnia Chronicles, where there's a witch, a beautiful witch, that's trying to take Puddleglum, remember Puddleglum, the marsh wiggle, and the little children, and trying to put them under an enchantment. And she's down underneath the earth, and so she's trying to put them under enchantment, and she says, you know, there is no sun, there are no trees, there is no stars, kingdom. And as they're falling under this spell, Puddle Glum, what does he do? Anybody remember what he does? He puts his foot in the fire right next to him, and it wakes him up. And he turns around and says, I know that there's a sun, and I know that there's trees, and I know that there's stars, and I know there's a heavens above. What he does is he wakes himself up. He startles himself. He unmasks the sin in a sense. He unmasks the lie so that the bewitching power is done. And that's what you've got to do. You are not going to ever get out from under the power of your sins, of your bad habits, of your flaws, if you simply look at them only in the most superficial and behavioral way, unless you see them as rooted and related to your desire to play God and to push God to the margins of your life. When you begin to see that, it'll start to lose its attractive active power. It'll be unmasked. You'll see the ugliness of it and you'll say, what am I doing having anything, any trade with this? What am I doing having anything to do with this awful thing? It'll immediately lose its power over you. So the second step is you find the tumor, go to the root. But thirdly, it's not enough, step one, just to open the person. And it's not enough just, step two, to find out what the real problem is. Step three, you've got to get it out. You've got to expel it. And how do you do that? How do you expel it? Through the power of grief. In verse 17, after Jesus has said to Peter twice, do you love me? And he's asked him a third time, do you love me? It says Peter was hurt because Jesus had asked him one more time about his love. And the word hurt is a very strong word. The Greek word that John uses is a word that means to grieve and to mourn. What has Jesus been doing? He's been pushing. First of all, he's showing Peter's responsibility. Secondly, he's showing him the root motivational problem he had. But now he's pushing and pushing and pushing until finally Peter is hurt. He starts to grieve. It means to weep. And it's not until he starts to grieve in the right way that there's an expulsive power that is enabling him to get rid, finally, of this old and false motivational foundation that has been driving his life and has caused him to deny his Lord. The grief is this. The Bible tells us there's two kinds of grief. In 2 Corinthians 7, verse 10, it says, Godly repentance leads to freedom. Godly repentance leads to freedom and no regrets. And then Paul says, but ungodly sorrow leads to death. There's plenty of people I know in here who have wept over their sins. And yet you said, I've had people come to me and say, you know, when I was younger, I felt real guilty about a lot of things in my lifestyle. And I came to church and I wept over my sins and all it did was make me feel worse. All it did was make my habits get worse. All it did and therefore I just had to get away from religion just to get some self-esteem back. Repentance didn't work for me. I tell you on the authority of the Word of God, that was ungodly sorrow. You were weeping in the wrong way. You were grieving in the wrong way. Because Paul says, if you have godly repentance, it always leads to freedom and no regrets. If on the other hand, you do ungodly sorrow, it leads to death. And if what happened to you led to death, then you didn't repent. Well, you say, what do you mean? you're supposed to grieve right. There's only two ways to grieve. You can either grieve over yourself or you can grieve over your Savior as you look at your sin. If nothing else registers let this register. You either have to grieve over yourself or you can grieve over your sin over your Savior either yourself or your Savior when you look at your sin. If you grieve over yourself it leads to death and only temporary changes. If you grieve over your Savior, it leads to life and freedom and permanent liberation and change. Listen. Let me give you a couple of contrasts. Moral people, religious people, say, look what my sin cost me. Look at the punishment it's bringing. You're weeping, see. But Christians say, look what my sin cost Christ. Look at how it's hurting him. One is self-pity, the other is repentance. Do you see how different those things are? This is not a semantic difference. This is all the difference between heaven and hell. It's not a small thing. As one of the old ministers used to say, a moral person brings his or her sin to Mount Sinai and thinks about the great punishment is coming. But a Christian brings his or her sin to the cross and says, is this the return I give my Savior for his overwhelming love for me? The moral person repents because you're afraid of being rejected. But the Christian repents because you know you've been accepted. And that's why you repent. You repent by saying, I've been loved and his love will never change. Look at what he did for me as a result. How can I treat him like this? Now, friends, that kind of repentance, that's real repentance, and that will clean you and that will change you. It's repentance. It's looking at the sin as wrong in itself. It's looking at your Savior, not at yourself. There's a big difference. Let me just show you how practical it is. One of the things that I, my life in my former pastorate was marriage counseling. We were in a small town. There were no counselors anywhere else. And at least four times a year for 10 years, this is what happened. On the average, a woman would walk in and say, I've been married 15 years, 20 years. My husband's been treating me like this all this time. I've had it. I've told him many times how unloving he's being. He just doesn't hear me. And my bags are packed, but I'm going to give it one more chance. I've come to see you. What should I do? Usually within the week, the husband was in my office too. And he was absolutely in a panic. And he would say this, I didn't realize how bad I'd hurt you. I had never really heard your complaints like I do now. I really want to change. Please stay. And she'd say, okay, let's give it a chance. Now let me tell you, after 10 years, beginning, I used to feel, wow, this is great. Things are going to turn around. After 10 years, I began to realize there are two kinds of husbands in the world. The one kind of husband would say, I'm really sorry that you're going to leave me. I'm really upset about the consequences. In other words, I would sit there and I would say, yeah, she says, I hear you. But does he hear her? Does, in other words, is he responding to her hurt, or is he responding to his hurt? Is he full of repentance for what he's done to her, or is he full of self-pity for what she's going to do to him? Those are two totally different impulses. And I'll tell you what happens. In one case, he's repenting for the sin. In another case, he's just upset about the consequences of the sin. and in every case they'd always change but the ones who had really repented would change permanently and their marriages would be transformed and the ones who were really just full of self-pity would change temporarily and when it looked like the wife was going to stay he would slide back and they were back in my office and what would I have to say to those guys? I would say, let me give you my most sophisticated psychological therapeutic treatment repent! Repent! And he would say, what are you talking about? And I'm saying this is the only way to freedom for you. This is the only way to healing for your marriage. This is the only way. Not the self-pity. Not the groveling before Mount Sinai. Go to the cross and see. See, friends, a Christian is somebody who knows they're forgiven and therefore can really repent. And a moral person is someone that they'll be good enough through their performance for God to accept them. You don't know that God has really accepted you, and therefore you can't repent. All you can do is be upset about what's going to happen to you. You actually, in a sense, can't really repent for sin. You can only be upset about yourself. Don't you see what has happened to Peter? He's been prepped. In Luke 5, Peter is in a boat, has not caught any fish. says, throw in the net one more time. Up comes a miraculous catch of fish. And what does Peter say? Depart from me, for I am a sinful man. By having the great power and greatness of Jesus near Peter, he was aware of his sinfulness and his smallness, and he hated the idea, and he wanted to get away. Now, in John 21, same situation. Peter hasn't caught any fish. Jesus tells him to put the net comes the miraculous catch of fish. And what does Peter do now? He feels small. He feels sinful, of course. What does he do now? He runs toward Jesus like a crazy man. What's going on here? How could the Peter of Luke 5 and the Peter of John 21 be the same Peter? They're not. The Peter of Luke 5 was not a Christian. The Peter of Luke 5 was like many people in this room. The Peter of Luke 5 based his self-image on his spiritual performance. And when any buddy came his smallness and his weakness, he was traumatized. His very self-image was at stake. He says, I'm not a decent person. I'm not the decent person I thought I was. I can't bear it. I've lost myself. But you see, the Peter of John 21 knows that Jesus did not come as a teacher, but as a savior. Jesus did not come simply to show us how we are to live to save ourselves, but Jesus actually came to save us through his own efforts. Peter now has said, because and only because of Jesus Christ's righteousness, not because of my righteousness patched up before God, can I be accepted. And it's because of that Peter's been prepped for surgery. If you want to know whether you're a Christian or just a nice person, ask yourself, when you're criticized, when you fail, when you disillusion yourself, does that make you want to go to God or does it make you want to stay away? When you try to repent, does it grind you into the ground or is it life itself? The most wonderful thing about all of the accounts of Peter's denials, the far and away the most unflattering one, is Mark 14. In Mark 14, it actually tells us that the last time Peter denied Christ, he cursed himself. He said, I am not a follower of his and may I be damned if I am? And Mark was Peter's secretary. And we all know that Mark is actually Peter's account, personal account of the gospel. And therefore, of all the accounts of the gospel, Peter will give you the most unflattering one. Why? Here's a man who can remember his past without, not only without pain, but he probably enjoys thinking about it because it shows forth the greatness of the grace of the Lord for him. Here's somebody who's been healed. Here's someone who knows, like a crazy man, that the best place for a sinner is right at the feet of Jesus. Do you know that? Do you understand that? Some people here, maybe, I hope now, see that they've never repented. They've, you know, felt guilty a lot. They've beaten themselves up quite a bit. They've felt sorry for themselves all the time, afraid, what about my reputation? What about, what are my parents going to say? But you've never actually sat at the foot of the cross and said, because you, Lord Jesus Christ, are my Savior and my righteousness, I put you in the center of my life. And because of that, I see that your love for me is absolutely infallible. Nothing can stop it. I rest in you alone for my salvation, and therefore I can repent. And then the repentance, you see, the reason I think Peter can talk about his past is you can think about your sins in such a way that all they do is make you more amazed at His grace. If you think of repentance as the spark plug in the cylinder, and the grace of God as the fuel coming in, that when the repentance actually gets the grace of God to combust in the compartment of your life, it's the repentance that actually makes the grace of God more precious all the time. you feel God's grace, the easier it is to repent because you know you're accepted. And the more you feel, the more you repent, the easier it is, and the more thrilling is His grace. And on. That's a motor. That's an engine. That's combustion. That's power. And that's you if you'll receive Him as Savior and begin to repent and rejoice. And Christian friends, I hope there's some of you that see that here you are. You're Christians. And yet you've been repenting like non-Christians for a long time. And that's the reason why Your lives are the mess they are. You will not take full responsibility for your sins. You will not unmask your sins and see them as your way of trying to get the crown back. You won't actually take your sins to the cross and look at the love and grace of Christ on the cross until that umbilical cord that has hooked the sin to your life, falls off and withers and dies because it becomes a hateful thing. That's what it means to repent and rejoice. As there is no sin so small, but it deserves damnation, so there is no sin so great that it can bring damnation on anyone who truly repents. Let's pray. Our Father, during the offering, would you help us to offer ourselves up to you? Yes, some of us will give money, but all of us need to give you our hearts so that we can know the joy of those who truly repent, the affirmation and love of those who repent in the gospel. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
