I'd like to read to you from 1 Corinthians 15, and verses 12 to 19, and then 54 to 57. But if it is preached that Christ has been raised from the dead, how can some of you say that there is no resurrection of the dead? If there is no resurrection of the dead, then not even Christ has been raised. and if Christ has not been raised, our preaching is useless and so is your faith. More than that, we are found to be false witnesses about God for we have testified about God that He raised Christ from the dead. But He did not raise Him if in fact the dead are not raised. If the dead are not raised, Christ has not been raised either. And if Christ has not been raised, your faith is futile and you are still in your sins. Then those who have fallen asleep in Christ are lost. If only for this life we have hope in Christ, we are to be pitied more than all men. 54. When the perishable has been clothed with the imperishable and the mortal with immortality, then the saying that is written will come true. Death has been swallowed up in victory. Where, O death, is your victory? Where, O death, is your sting? The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law. But thanks be to God, he gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. That's God's word. Now, we've been looking at this chapter on the resurrection all during our Easter season. And the first 11 verses talk about how to believe in the resurrection of Christ. But the last verses from 12 to the end talk about how to live the resurrection. because the resurrection of Christ is not just something to believe in, it's something to be lived because Christ is not a dead teacher. If he was a dead teacher, then being a Christian would just be to believe what he said. But since he's a risen Lord, he comes and he interpenetrates our life with a new order of being. And verses 12 to the end of the chapter talk about how it's possible to be in such a relationship with Christ that His resurrection life comes in and characterizes our lives. And there's four, at least, I'm sure there's more, but there's four characteristics of this resurrection life that are mentioned in the chapter. And those four characteristics that I see are courage, which we looked at last week, forgiveness, that we're looking at this week, power and hope, which we'll look at later. You see, in verse 17, he says, raised, you are still in your sins. Strong passage, strong statement. And then later on in the chapter, he comes back, I think, to this subject, and he gives us a little more insight. And he says three things. He says, the sting of death is sin, the power of sin is the law, and thanks be to God who gives us the victory through Christ. And here, of course, Paul, since the entire chapter is about the resurrection, what Paul is actually saying is the resurrection is the thing which overcomes the sting of sin and the power of sin. Now let's talk about it. What Paul is saying is unless you know and believe in the resurrection of Christ you cannot experience the freedom and the power of a guilt-free life. A guilt-free life, that's what Paul's talking about. The secret to the guilt-free life, the key to the guilt-free life, is the belief in the resurrection. And I wanna show us here this afternoon how much of our religion, ah pardon me, well, how much of our religion too, but how much of our life is guilt based. How much of our life is guilt induced. How much of our behavior is guilt based. Paul says there's a way to be free of having a guilt-based life. Look, first, let's look at each of these three statements. The sting of death is sin. The power of sin is the law. The victory over the sting and the power of sin is the resurrection of Christ. How does that happen? How does that work like this? First, the sting of death is sin. What's that mean? This is a very profound statement. The sting of death is sin. Paul is saying that there is a guilt that permeates every part of our lives so that everything that we face that's bad has a sting to it. You see, death is the last enemy, but it's not the only enemy. Paul calls it the last enemy, but it's not the only enemy. There's lots of little deaths that we experience in life that rob us of joy. I mean, our hearts want joy. They want love. They want comfort. They want significance. They want all these things. And there's just all kinds of obstacles, all kinds of things that rob us of those, of joy. And they're all little deaths. Death is just the final and the greatest of all of the troubles. What Paul is saying is the sting of these things is sin. The sting of death, the sting of all the problems of life, is a sense that we're sinners and that we're guilty. Let me explain. Let me just show you. I remember a couple of years ago I was talking to a young man, and he was a student and he was seeking to get into grad school and into a particular career, and right in the middle of one particularly critical semester, his father died. And in the turmoil and the upheaval that came into his life after when his father died, he was going and coming all the time. He had to drop a course, he failed a course, he had a financial difficulty, an academic difficulty. But what actually happened was he wasn't, because of all that, able to get into the grad school of his choice, and as far as he could see, able to have the career of his choice. And he sat there and he was sad, but he asked me something that I knew would happen. I knew this. I've been a pastor too long. What he did, he sat there and he looked at me and he said, why am I being punished? You see, what had happened to him was bad. He didn't have the career that he wanted, but the real sting of it was the guilt that he felt. I'm being punished. You see, all of our problems are double problems. We not only have the problem, but we feel maybe of condemnation. The sting of these things is sin, is guilt. So many people, if you're not, look, if you're not married yet, underneath very, in many cases, if you want to be married, you feel sometimes guilty, like I did something wrong, or maybe there's something wrong with me. Why am I being punished? If you haven't gotten where you want to be in your career at this point, and you're not making as much money as you wanted to, or you don't have the, the acclaim that you want to have, or you don't have the achievement that you want to have. It's not simply that you haven't arrived where you want to be, but it's also a sense like, what have I done wrong? Why am I being punished? Have I brought this on myself? Guilt is caked on us, and we cannot avoid it, and it is literally everywhere. Paul Tournier, the great Swiss doctor, He was a physician who wrote a number of books in the middle part of the 20th century, and at one point in one of his books he said, a guilty conscience is the seasoning of everyday life. It's everywhere. And you almost can't avoid it. You can't raise a child, you can't raise a child without telling the child this behavior is wrong or that behavior is wrong. If you see self-destructive behavior, you have to correct. And correcting, even if it's nice, is a form of scolding. You work very hard at it, but my goodness, you have to stigmatize certain behavior, and so there's guilt being laid on the child. You can't have a country, you can't have a society without stigmatizing behavior. We've tried very hard to get rid of any kind of guilt. We think it's bad, but I noticed recently in Massachusetts they're putting on the 6 o'clock news the pictures and the names of deadbeat dads now. Because, you see, I was reading an article in Atlantic Monthly that said it's very difficult for us to remove all social stigma of any kind of behavior and still get responsible behavior. In order to get these guys to pay child support, we have to embarrass them. We have to make them feel guilty. We used to do that. We stopped doing it. Now we have to do it again. You can't avoid having guilt laid on you. It's all around you. People raising their eyebrows at you. People giving you advice. Every time somebody gives you advice, what do you think that is? It's a criticism. It might be full of smiles, it might be well-meaning, it might be constructive, but it's still a criticism. The problem is that there's a guilt around everything that we do. Look at the bottom of a lot of your anxiety and you may find guilt. Look at the bottom of your anger and you may find guilt. If you're successful you feel guilty because you've had these privileges. You look around and realize there are a lot of other people that are as smart as you, what happened to them? They just didn't seem to get the breaks. You feel guilty if you're successful, but if you're unsuccessful you feel guilty. If you have children, you feel guilty because you never do right by them. If you don't have children, you feel guilty. Maybe I should be having children. Why didn't I? What's wrong with me? No matter what happens, no matter whether they get you coming or going, and we're not just talking about Western world. You say, ah, yes, in the West, they're guilt-ridden. Go to India and see the Hindus trying to wash away their sins in the Ganges. Go and look at the Buddha statues that are full of sin offerings. They put gold leaf, gold flowers as sin offerings at the foot of the Buddha. Look at all these things. You say, well, maybe that's just religious people are full of guilt. No, no, secular people. Look at them helping the poor, largely out of guilt that they feel over all the privileges that they enjoy. We're run by guilt. If we're successful, we feel guilty. If we're unsuccessful, we feel guilty. It's everywhere. A guilty conscience is the seasoning of everyday life. Why. And the popular, you might say, the received wisdom is that guilt comes completely because we lay guilt on people in society or we lay guilt on people in families. But the Bible says that there's got to be a more radical analysis than that. If you look at, if you read the books of the Freudians 70 years ago, in some cases 60 years ago, you'll see that they say that the real problem that people have with guilt is because the families are too strong, they're too domineering. Now they say the reason people feel guilty is because the families are too weak. You know, Freud said the reason that guilt is there because the society is so repressed. But you know, in the 70 years since he wrote those things, well there has been an absolute revolution in social attitudes, a tremendous revolution in social attitudes, and you would at least think that if he was right that there would be at least a diminishment of guilt and self-loathing anxiety, but no, and it's not even a little bit of an increase, it's a tremendous increase. The Bible says it's deeper than psychological. 50 years ago, if you felt guilty, you'd run to a priest. Now you run to a therapist, but it's the same thing, the Bible says. At the bottom, the Bible says there is a guilt that you can't get rid of because we all have sense of God, we all have a sense of condemnation, we all have the sense that we owe our Master, our Maker, more than we can owe. You say you're a modern person you don't believe in God you don't believe in hell you don't believe in sin and yet there's a voice inside you that calls you a coward, calls you a vile, and calls you a fool. Well you blame that on your family or you blame it on something but the idea is you can call it complexes you can call it oppression. You can call it the pressures of modern life, but it won't go out. You say you don't believe in these things and you wake up feeling guilty. Why? The Bible says it's deeper than psychological. You owe your maker something that you can't pay. The sting of life is sin. The sting of death is sin. The sting of all of our troubles is sin. We're caked in guilt. We sense that we're guilty. We sense that we're not up to specs. We sense that we haven't arrived and you can't avoid it. And there's no way out. You can't raise children without laying guilt on people. You can't have a society without laying guilt on people. You can't give advice without laying guilt on people. And no matter how much you try to define it away, you can't get rid of it, your own feeling of it. The sting of death is sin. It's everywhere, okay? Okay? Secondly, Paul explains that not only does sin have a sting to it, that's what the pain is. That's why we have so much pain in our life. We feel guilty, and it's underneath everything. Now, the second proposition that Paul gives us is that sin is not just a sting. It's not just painful, but it's got a power. This is very important as well. The power of sin is what? What? The law. Put it this way. Paul is saying, and I think I'd like to make the case here that this is true, certainly, that there's an indelibility about sin. Sin's got a power. Now, we just talked about it, and so we're going to get into it a little bit further. Sin has got a power to it. We can't seem to get it out or wash it out. When I was thinking in preparing for this talk this sermon I was thinking about all the ways in which we try to avoid guilt and I can think of a number of them and the more I think about these things the more I realize how much of my behavior is guilt engendered is guilt based what do you do to relieve yourself of feeling guilty under your embarrassment under your shyness under your modesty under your anxiety under your anger under so many of the emotions you've got there's guilt what do we do about it one of the things you can do Let me give you six strategies we use. One of the ways that you make yourself feel less guilty about your flaws and your failures is by shifting the blame. Well, it's not all my fault, see. They're part of it. They led me on. They did this to me. I got it from them. Blame shifting. And we spend a great deal of time doing that to try to relieve ourselves of guilt. Another strategy, the second strategy, is to redefine sin. Now, this is especially something people do in college, especially something people do in urban areas. You're encouraged to define your own moral standards. So we feel guilty, so what do you say to yourself? You say, ah, yes. Well, nobody believes that's wrong anymore. People used to believe that, but I'm a liberated person. I'm a modern person. I can decide what's right and wrong for me. So you try to redefine it, and that's one of the ways in which you overcome and try to overcome your guilt and get relief. A third way, blame shift, redefined, is just pure escapism. You escape from the guilty feelings by throwing yourself into something that is a distraction. You can throw yourself into your business or your work. You can throw yourself in all sorts of activities. You can throw yourself into pleasure. You can throw yourself into sex. You can throw yourself into substances, you know, and become a substance abuser. You can throw yourself into luxuries and all sorts of things because they distract you from this sting. They distract you from the sense of your of your guilt, the sense of being inferior, the sense of not being up to specs. A fourth thing, so you can blame shift, you can redefine it, you can escape it. A fourth thing you can do is you can listen to or provide gossip. Gossip is a guilt-based event. Why does gossip sell magazines? Why do you find it delicious? Why do you love reading about other people's foibles? Why is it that people are... Well, why is it, for example, TV shows, even so-called news shows, that proliferate over the last ten years because they show you the seamy side of everybody? Do we want to believe that our, we really want to believe that even our leaders are crooks? Oh, we're so upset with it, we're so upset with it, but we buy the papers and we read all the details. Why? Because it makes us feel less guilty ourselves. The reason you pass gossip along, and the reason you listen to it, and there's nobody in this room, you, look, I'm the first one to say, I hate gossip, I don't want to listen to it, but I'm a human being too. It's delicious, It's delicious. It tastes good. Why? It makes me feel better. Or maybe I should say, by comparing myself to other people, by fault-finding, by criticizing other people, by criticizing everything, by gossiping and by listening to gossip, you're actually dealing with your guilt. There's no other reason for it. A fifth way that people deal with guilt is to be an overachiever. See, I'm a really pretty good person. A sixth way to deal with guilt is to be a rescuer. You help people. You save people. You take messed up people and you get them straight. But you see, all of it, blame shifting and redefining sin and escapism and gossip and criticism and a critical spirit and a fault-finding spirit and overachievement and rescuing and enabling people, all of these things are guilt-based behavior. They are desperate efforts, to deal with the sense of guilt that we all have got, the sting of all of the problems that we have, and it doesn't work. It doesn't work, because sin's got a power. It's got an indelibility. We can't get rid of it. What else can I say? There's one guy, and I don't even remember who said this, but I have the quote somewhere. It's just a great quote. It says, this one writer says, nothing is more characteristic of human guilt than its indelibility. Its power to assert itself with unabated poignancy in spite of all lapses of time, all changes in self or environment. Nothing is more characteristic of human guilt than its indelibility. No matter what you do, in spite of all lapses of time, in spite of all changes in self and all changes of environment, it's there. It's still got a power. You redefine it. intellectually, you don't believe there's anything wrong with it, and you feel guilty for it. You escape, but you feel guilty anyway. You overachieve, but you feel guilty. You blame shift, but you just feel guilty. There's a power about it. Well, Paul says, why? And the answer is, the power of sin is the law. Now, what Paul is saying is theologically and psychologically profound. I'm going to repeat myself two or three times to make sure it sinks in. If there was no law of God, sin would be only psychological. Guilt would be only psychological. And it is psychological. Of course guilt is psychological, but it's not only psychological. It's not less than psychological, but it's more. What Paul is saying is the reason sin's got a power is because it's not just psychological. If it was, you could deal with it with therapy. You could deal with it in all sorts of ways. You could atone for it by good deeds and helping other their people, but it's not. It's got a power and endellability because it's not just psychological, it's legal, it's actual, it's real because of the law of God. The law of God. Put it this way. Why does the Bible say that it's right to love and nurture and it's wrong to kill and destroy? Why is it right to love and nurture and wrong to kill and destroy? Why? Because God is love And because God is love, love is real. Love is right because the law of God is nothing but the nature of God delineated. What do you think the law of God is? It's not like my algebra teacher used to give me busy work in eighth grade to keep me off the streets. You know, that's all the law of the algebra teacher was. Here, busy work. But the law of God is not busy work. It's simply a delineation of who he is. He is honest. So the law says, be honest, don't lie. He is loving. So the law says, don't kill. Don't steal. He is responsible. So the law says, keep your promises. He is patient. So the law says, forgive. Because of what he is, that's the way reality is. And the law of God is an objective standard of what's right and wrong. If there was no God, Paul says, and no, who did not have a nature, if there was no God without a will, if there was no God and the law of God, then sin would be only psychological. Guilt would only be psychological. But since there is a law and there is a God, guilt is legal. It is real. It's not just psychological, and that's the reason why it can't be dealt with through all the other kinds of behavior we're talking about. It's real, and therefore there's a real debt, there's a real standard, there's therefore a real violation, and it has to be paid for. If I destroyed somebody's property, I don't just feel guilty, I am guilty. And I don't just feel guilty, I owe something. And so if I sit down and I confess my sin to somebody and I talk, oh, I feel so bad that I smashed up that person's car, I took that person when they didn't ask and I feel so bad. But you see, there's the psychological guilt but then there's the real guilt and you're going to have to pay for it. There's a claim on you. There's a liability that you have you actually pay for it. And when you pay for it and until you pay for it, there's that claim on you that you feel. You have not only a psychological guilt, you've got real guilt. There's an objective standard. In the same way, Paul says the reason sin's indelible, the reason there's a power is that there's a real God, there is a real law, there's a real objective standard. You have violated it. Does everybody in this room believe in the golden rule? Why? It's in your heart. You know you should treat other people the way they treat you. You also know that nobody in this room has ever kept that law. You keep it occasionally, but you constantly fail. Now, is that just a psychological law? Is it just a feeling that we have? If so, then you can deal with it. Redefine it and say, well, who says the golden rule is right? But if the golden rule is in your heart and conscience because it is actually part of God's nature and part of God's law, then you don't just feel guilty, you are. It's not just psychological guilt. There's a real guilt. That's a debt. Something has to be paid, and therefore there's a power, there's an indelibility about because of the law of God. I can't leave this thing without at least briefly mentioning just how profound Paul is here. He anticipated the great crisis we have at the end of the 20th century in the field of jurisprudence. In 1979, there was a very famous law professor at Yale Law School named Arthur Leff, and he published a very famous lecture. And in this lecture, Arthur Leff says that once Western civilization got rid of God in the Bible as the basis for civil law, once we decided that we don't know if there's a God, God, but even if there is a God, we can't base civil law on the Bible anymore." He says, now, that happened 300 years ago, we decided that. Ever since then, for the last 300 years, the question in modern jurisprudence that we've been trying to answer, unsuccessfully, is this, since we can't base civil law on the Bible, and on God's law, since we don't know if there's a God's law, we don't believe there's a God's law, how do we determine if a civil law is just or unjust. How do we do it? How do we know if a law is right or wrong? And he says the history of jurisprudence for the last 300 years is nothing but a set of failures to answer that. He says, for example, in the very beginning, the philosophers were confident that they could answer that question by studying what they called natural law. Through science and reason, we can look out and we can discern and come to consensus on what is justice, what is right and morally right and morally wrong. But the scientists and the philosophers, when they looked at nature, didn't see anything but the survival of the fittest. You can't get any sense of justice and morality out of nature. All you have is the strong devouring the weak. All right? So Arthur Left says, so we abandoned that and we said, all right, the way we decide whether a law is right or wrong is utilitarianism, the greatest good for the greatest number of people, John Stuart Mill and so forth. That's how we decide whether something's right or wrong. But, he says, here's the question. What happens when 60% of the people decide it's right to exterminate the other 40%? Now, in this article, he's very, very candid. He says, if 60% of the people decide that they can take the 40% and throw them into the ovens, how do we now decide that law that they've passed by democratic principles is right or wrong? If you say, oh, it's wrong. Genocide is wrong. The 60% is going to turn to you and say, says who? Says who? You can't look at nature and know that this is wrong. Survival of the fittest. You can't go to the Bible because we don't base our laws on the Bible anymore. And Arthur Leff in this article says, since you cannot, we have no recourse to divine authority, when the majority decide that they're going to oppress a minority, we have no basis to call them wrong. Says who? And at the end of the lecture, Arthur Leff puts it this way, and it's amazing how, in a sense, Paul anticipated all of this. At the end of the lecture, Arthur Leff says this, the so-called death of God is not just his funeral. It was the total elimination of any coherent ethical or legal system. Pitifully, neither reason nor love nor terror has made us good, and worse than that, there's no reason why anything should. As it stands now, everything is up for grabs. We think napalming babies is bad. We think starving the poor is wicked. We think buying and selling human beings is depraved, but says who? God help us. You know what he's saying? He says if there is no law of God, then there's no way to define sin. Sin is just psychological. It's just a matter of opinion. But even the people who deny that there is a law of God cannot miss the power of sin. That means even the people who don't believe there's the law of God still feel that napalming babies is wrong. They still feel that starving the poor is wicked. They still feel that buying and selling human beings is wrong. Even though since there's no law of God, any guilt people feel over those things should be only psychological. And yet Arthur Leff here at the end says, we still feel they're wrong. We sense the power of sin even though we don't believe in the law of God. What Paul says is, if there was no God then there would be nothing but psychological guilt. But because there is a God, that's why you still feel the power. That's why there's an indelibility. That's why, in spite of your premise, you still believe your conclusion is wrong. That genocide and these things are just matters of opinion. You see what Paul is saying? The reason that we can't get out from under our guilt is it's not just psychological, it's not just a matter of opinion. Even if you intellectually have denied the idea that there's a law of God, and I'm sure many of you have, then there would be nothing but psychological guilt. How do you explain the power of sin? How do you explain the indelibility of guilt? How do you explain the fact that you feel these things are wrong even though there's no basis in your own intellectual framework for saying so? The answer is there is a God. There is a law, and that's where the power of sin comes from. It's not just that you feel guilty. You are. It's not just that you have psychological guilt feelings. You are legally guilty. There's a debt. and it must be paid. And you won't be able to deal with your sin by shifting the blame and confessing it to people, journaling things out, lots of catharsis, criticizing, listening to gossip, overachieving, enabling people. None of that will work because there's a real guilt, and it's got to be paid for. Now, finally, you see, Paul, first of all, says, the sting of death is sin. Guilt is everywhere. Secondly, Paul says, the reason for that guilt your upbringing. It's not just the way your parents brought you up. Some of you in this room will never come to grips with your past until you realize that the way you were treated has not caused your guilt. It's just aggravated it. Don't be that upset with the people who mistreated you. It didn't cause the fact that you've got all your guilt feelings. It just aggravated them. Your guilt is prior. It's deeper. It's not just psychological. It's theological. We know that we owe our Maker all of our heart, soul, strength, and mind. We owe to love our neighbor as ourself, and we're not doing it. There's a debt. We're sinners. Therefore, we have these guilt feelings. The power of sin is the law. Now, lastly, thanks be to God who giveth us the victory through Christ. Paul says the resurrection is the blade that slices through this guilt and not just our psychological guilt, that's the sting, but also the real guilt, that's the law. The resurrection slices not just through our psychological guilt, which is the sting of death, but our actual guilt, which is the law. How? Here's how. Let me read you a story. This is the problem. When you're preaching in the Old Testament, there's always a story. When you're preaching in the New Testament, it's always so didactic. So you need a story. So let me give you a story. C.S. Lewis' fairy tales, the Chronicles of Narnia, in the middle one, called The Voyage of the Dawn Treader, it tells about a little boy named Eustace. Now, a little boy named Eustace, Eustace is a snot, you know what I mean? He's very self-centered. He is very irritable. He's very ill-mannered and rude. He's quite selfish, and nobody likes him. At one point, he discovers a cave full of treasure. It's a dragon's treasure. And immediately, he realizes he'll be rich, and he'll be able to get back at all the kids at school and all the adults that ever tried to get him to do things, and he just can't wait to get home and to take all this treasure and to set himself up as a little king. But he's very tired, so he falls asleep. Now, all of you, of course, since you are well versed in fairy tales, would know that anybody who falls asleep on a dragon's treasure with dragonish thoughts in your heart turns into a dragon. He woke up and he discovered that he was a dragon. He was in agony. He couldn't talk. His friends thought that he was a horrible monster and it looked like he was doomed. Then one night he wakes up and he meets a lion. Now the lion in Lewis's Narnia Tales is really the incarnation of Jesus himself. The lion is a Jesus figure. And this lion appears to Eustace, who's in the form of a dragon, and Eustace tells what happened. He says, I looked up and I saw the last thing I expected, a huge lion coming slowly towards me. It told me to follow it. So it led me a long way up into the mountains, and at last we came to the top of a mountain I'd never seen before. And on the top of the mountain, there was a garden, trees and fruit and everything. And in the middle of it, there was a well. I knew it was a well because you could see the water bubbling up from the bottom. It was a lot bigger than most wells, like a very big round bath with marble steps going down into it. The water was as clear as anything, and I thought if I could just get in there and bathe, it would ease my pain. But the lion said, I had to undress first. Well, I wasn't going to say that I couldn't undress, but then I realized I didn't have any clothes on, but maybe dragons are snaky sorts of things, and snakes can cast off their skin. So I started scratching myself, and my whole skin started peeling off beautifully like it does after an illness or as if I was a banana. And in a minute or two, I just stepped out of it, and I could see it lying there beside me looking rather nasty. It was a most lovely feeling. So I started to go down into the well to bathe, but as I was going out to put my foot into the water, I looked and I saw it was all hard and rough and wrinkled and scaly again. Oh, that's all right, I said. It only means I had another smaller suit underneath the first one. I'll have to get out of it too. So I peeled off, I scratched and tore again, and under this skin, I peeled off a second skin, and I stepped out and left it lying beside the other one, and I went down to the well for my bathe. But exactly the and I thought to myself, oh dear, however many skins have I got to take off, for I was longing to bathe. Then the lion said, you will have to let me undress you. I was afraid of his claws, I can tell you, but I was pretty nearly desperate now, so I just lay flat down on my back to let him do it. The very first tear he made was so deep that I thought it had gone right into my heart, and when he had began to pull the skin off, it hurt worse than The only thing that made me able to bear it was just the pleasure of feeling the stuff peel off. Well, he peeled the beastly stuff right off, just as I thought I'd done it myself the other three times, only they hadn't really hurt. And there it was, lying on the grass, ever so much thicker and darker and more knobbly looking than the others had been. And there I was, as smooth and as soft as a peeled switch, and smaller than I had been. Then he caught hold of me. I didn't like that much, for I was very tender underneath now. water. It smarted like anything, but only for a moment. It became perfectly delicious, and I was soon swimming and splashing, and I found out that all the pain had gone, and I turned into a boy again. And after a bit, the lion took me out and dressed me in new clothes, the very ones I've got on, as a matter of fact. And then suddenly I was back here, which is what makes me think maybe it was all a dream. No, said Edmund, it wasn't a dream. Now, it's all there. The same things that the Bible talks about is all in that story. It's an allegory, of course. There's three things that Eustace discovered. The first thing was that he couldn't take his own skin off. It was impossible. As many times as he tried to take his own skin off, it would come off, but then there would always be more. The second thing was that he had to let the lion go deeper than he could go himself. And then thirdly, he had to let the lion clothe him. In the same way, the only way that you will ever deal with the sting of sin, of guilt, and the only way you'll deal with the power of guilt and sin in your life, is if you also come to accept and understand these same three things. First, you've got to see that you can't deal with your sin yourself. As many skins as you try to take off, it's just like trying to peel an onion. There's always another layer, and all you do is weep. The further down you go, the more you cry, and you've still got an onion. Same thing happened to Eustace. Here's what I mean. that sin, your guilt is real, not just psychological, then don't you see that just sort of confessing it and blaming other people for it, the psychological approach won't ultimately help. As a pastor, I've been used for this many times, and it's all right, I guess. People come to me, I'm an authority figure, and they tell me what they've done wrong, and they want me to say, God loves you, it's all right, and there's lots of other people in the same boat. And it does help them feel good for a while. And as far as it goes, it's all right, but it doesn't go very far. Because that's a shallow understanding of guilt. If what Paul says is right about guilt, then there's got to be payment. Intellectually, you may get rid of this idea that you owe, and that you have to pay for your sins. Maybe intellectually you've gotten rid of this idea, but I can tell you one thing, psychologically you have not. Look at the way you beat yourself up. Look at the way you overachieve. You are trying to pay for your sins. You can tell me you don't believe in sin. This morning there were a number of people who were here that didn't believe in sin at all, and they just sat there and they listened. They can't believe that the people in New York City with more than a third grade education are sitting around here talking and thinking about their sins. I tell you something. You may intellectually have defined it away. You may intellectually say sin is a guilt feeling. It's something that you can deal with. I tell you that your heart knows that it's not. It has to be paid. Think about it for a minute. If somebody spills coffee on my suit, there's only two things that can happen. Either that person, the perpetrator pays, the dry cleaner bill, or I forgive. Now, if I forgive you, that doesn't mean that somehow the sin goes off into the sky. It means that I pay. You can't forgive something without paying for it. Forgiveness never happens of any violation without somebody paying. Either I don't forgive you and you pay the dry cleaner bill, or I do forgive you and I pay the dry cleaner bill, but somebody's got to pay. And it gets a little more complicated if you get away. What if you assassinate my character? What if you ruin my reputation in some way? There's only two things that can happen. I can exact the cost. I can ask you to pay. How do I make you pay? I go assassinate your character. It's very easy. I got a microphone. Here's how I can do it. When other people ask me what they think, if I can get to it, I'll be happy to tell other people what you did and what kind of person you are and what kind of low character you have. pay for it by seeing you and being cold and raising my eyebrow and giving you harsh looks and harsh words. I can make you pay for it by just sitting and playing the tapes of what you've done to me. In other words, I can make you pay for it or I can forgive you. But if I forgive you, I pay. It means that when I have the chance to run you down, I affirm you. It means when I have a chance to talk about you in a bad way to other people, I don't. It means that when I meet you, even though I'd like to pay you back by being harsh to you, I'm cordial and warm and loving. It hurts. It's difficult. I want to either exact the cost or I pay the cost. They're the only two options. Either I don't forgive and you pay, or I do forgive and I pay. But you see, a sin cannot be just going to the air when it's pardoned. It's got to be punished. A debt cannot just go to the air when it's forgiven. It's got to be paid. To forgive is to pay. It. You owe God. You owe your neighbors. Who's going to pay? You owe more than you can pay, and you know it. If you go around confessing your sins simply to priests and pastors or therapists, if you go around blaming other people, overachieving, listening to gossip, all the things, if you have all sorts of emotional catharsis as ways of dealing with It won't work. Because your guilt, it's just like peeling off one layer of skin. There's always more underneath. You'll never get to the bottom of it. So the first thing you have to understand is that you can't pay for your own sins. You can't deal with your own guilt. Secondly, the second thing that Eustace had to do was he had to let Jesus take his skin off. But you see, the lion's claws went deeper almost to my heart. felt deeper than I had ever gone myself. And so the second thing I want to tell you is this. There is no way to avoid sin. Sin cannot be avoided, only resolved. You can't back out of sin. You've got to go through sin. The way out is through. You don't say, I feel guilty, so I blame other people, so I redefine it, so I say I'm really not that bad. Other people have made me do it. No! That's what it means to sort of peel your You've got to go to Jesus and admit, not only are you a sinner, but it's worse than you ever thought. The way out of guilt is through it. You can't avoid it. You can only resolve it. You can take the full responsibility and then repent. If I've got a log, and one end of it's on my shoulder and the other end of it's on the ground, it means about 20% of the weight's on me and 80% of the weight's on the ground. If I try to throw that log, I'll probably just hurt myself. The only way to really control that log and throw it away from me is to lift the whole weight on me and then heave it. That's basic physics. It's also basic theology. The only way you will ever overcome your guilt is to first admit it. The only way you will ever overcome your guilt is to admit that you're not just a little bit guilty. You're a rebel before God, that you're a sinner, that you owe your maker more than you can possibly pay. You've got to let him go deep. You've got to let the claws go all the way to your heart. You've got to say no excuses. Yes, I was wrong. Yes, I've been hurt. Yes, but everybody else has been too. I've taken a lot of misery and I've taken a lot of grief but I've given it back. I have not loved you with all my heart, soul, strength and mind. I have not loved my neighbor as myself. You've got to admit it. You've got to let Him go all the way to the heart. Do you hear me? You've got to let Him put His claws all the way down there. He will go deeper if you're willing to open His word and read His law and really admit that it's all true of you. So the second point is the way out of guilt is through it. The way to deal with guilt is not to avoid it, but to resolve it. And the third thing, Eustace not only realized he couldn't get his own skin off and only God can come and take your skin off and you have to let him pierce deep, you have to let him convict you of sin, you have to take all the guilt on yourself and stop blaming, shifting blame and take responsibility for what you've done wrong. No excuses, fool in the face, this is what I've done wrong. The third thing is you've got to realize that in the resurrection you've got new clothes. Some man wrote Martin Luther and said, Martin Luther, what do I do about the sin I feel all the time? And Martin Luther says, every morning get up and say, Lord Jesus, you put on yourself what was mine and you put on me what was yours. You became what you were not that I could become what I was not. You became my sin. I have become your righteousness. You became a sinner in my place. So I now am loved and the righteousness of God in you. Jesus Christ died in your place. He substituted for you. He paid it. He paid it all. He dealt with it. And unless you believe that and act on that and reflect on that and think on that, you're never going to just be able to deal with your guilt because your guilt is not just psychological. It's legal. It's real. Hmm. Well, what's the resurrection have to do with it? Fairly simple. Paul believed, I mean, Paul heard, pardon me, Paul heard, St. Paul heard that Jesus said he had died for his sins. He didn't get anything out of it until he met the risen Christ. because when he saw that Jesus was
