testimony this morning his name is Ben Faustino he's the president of land micro systems which is a computer consulting firm in New Jersey Ben lives in Gillette with his lovely wife Lou who's also here with him this morning and they have three children one boy two girls and two of their are in college, so we need to be praying for Ben and Lou for those tuitions. It's incredible the cost of college today. I was talking with Al. Are you out there somewhere? There he is back in the corner. I was talking to Al and he was telling me about when his son was in college. He said, my son was brilliant. He was incredible in college. and as a matter of fact, when he would write us a letter from college, we would have to go to the dictionary. And I said, you know, Al, you're really lucky because whenever Lisa and I get a letter from our son, we have to go to the bank. Anyway, without further ado, I don't see you out there, Ben, but I'm sure you... share with us. Thanks. Thank you, Kirby. You had a whiz about being as tall as George and having a voice. Now I want to be as tall as George, having his voice, and having you humor. First of all, thank you for inviting me. I'm a bit nervous, which is not really typical of me. I'm a businessman, and I do a lot of sales presentation. I grew up in the corporate world, and you know how that is. All the time you're out there trying to sell your product. So you get used to that. This is a bit different. This is trying to sell you my joy. of what's happening to my life now. Like many of you, or like many good Christians, I grew up in a normal Christian family. I knew, as I was growing up, I knew Christianity meant, or my faith, religion meant going to church once a week, one hour a week. The shorter, the better. I remember I had two brothers and two sisters and we would try to find out which church near us had the shortest mass so we could go there. I believe in that. I believe that doing that I paid my dues if you will to God, to my religion that is the way

my faith was all about. I have to confess that I really didn't know Jesus Christ. I know him by name. I know him right there in the cross. But I really didn't understand how he meant to me. Anyway,

during my formative years as an adult, I became very intense. I wanted to have complete control of my destiny. I worked hard. I tried to chart, or I charted my career, my life, went through college, did very well in engineering school, started working for blue-chip companies back in Asia, ended up as general manager of one of the biggest American firms. And that wasn't enough. I just had to have more. Well, married my wife, of course, that's more, and had three children. And then in 1979, we decided we wanted to come to the land of milk and honey, and we migrated to the United States. Again, I worked for good companies. I ended up in AT&T, had a good job, was a product manager, and so on and so forth. But it wasn't just for the feeling. do more. Secondly, I thought I wasn't in control of my destiny. So I said, enough of this. I'm going to put up my own company. So in 1987, I put up my own networking company. That was fulfilling to me. But I didn't know that control meant there's... Or rather, there were mountains that I had to climb all the time, but I didn't know that being in control of myself, there were bodies to fall into also. All the time during those years, I would have the highs and I would have the lows, and I started to get into depression, really deep depression. I would cry at the middle of the night into the morning. Sometimes the problems were real. The business wasn't doing that well. Sometimes they weren't. I was just so much of a worrier that I would worry about what to worry the next day. It became so intense that I thought the way to do it, the American way of doing it is to go to a shrink. So I said, hey, I might as well contribute to the American Psychiatric society or association and it started going. I felt the couch felt good but my pocket felt bad and nothing it didn't do anything to me and my wife was always there besides me saying don't worry about it don't worry about it God has always been with us he's not gonna abandon us I had dreams of going bankrupt. I had dreams of, in fact, the way I said it, what I always said is, if I don't have my company, I don't like my life anymore. That's how intense I was. I was envious of workaholics. I said, how come these guys work seven days a week? I only work six, and I only work 12 hours a day, and that is true. I would work at eight o'clock in the morning and won't go home until nine o'clock or ten o'clock. I don't even have lunch. I didn't know I was getting to be an alcoholic and my wife was saying, you know, all this work, it's just work. In fact, I used to say I work six and a half days a week because I have a computer at home and I would go to church Sunday morning and work Sunday afternoon. It became worse when I moved my company five minutes from my house. So I had to eat, right? I had to eat for dinner, and go back to work again. Sometimes I would say up to 12 o'clock, 1 o'clock in the evening. That was six days a week. That was great, but there were so many bad times. When something goes wrong, whether it's minor or major, I would go into depression. I would cry. But I felt that wasn't the kind of life I want to live. Anyway, so I had many good friends. I have many good friends that says, you know, do you know Jesus Christ? Of course I know Jesus Christ. And he said, do you really know Jesus Christ? What are you talking about? Okay. I'm a good Christian. I go to church every Sunday. I do that, you know. Maybe I, you know, I snooze every now and then while at church, but I don't snore. Okay. So I do my job. Anyway, early this year or late this year, I heard a born-again Christian, his name is Jack, many of you probably know him, and he started talking to me about Jesus Christ and the Bible. I said, I know about the Bible, but really, maybe I've opened the Bible once or twice in my life, but never read it. So he keeps going at me. And then he said, there's a Bible study somewhere in Bedminster. See, I don't even know exactly, exact time. Bedminster. I know how to get there. I'll tell you the story. And I keep saying, yeah, I'll do that. Yeah, I'll do that. Then on May 17 this year, the night before, the May 16 impact, very bad depression, and my wife knows about this. I was ready to kill myself. The evidence of that is I have a big wall in my bedroom that I was pounding my head because I just couldn't take the stress anymore. You talk about stress? No, I don't know what stress is. I couldn't take the stress. I couldn't take the frustration. I wasn't in control anymore. I said, why am I not in control? Why is the business not doing that well? And I said, I don't think I'm fit to live. unless the business is doing very well. Those were my words. Well, that evening I fell asleep. And in the morning I just woke up with a jolt. I said, I've got to do something with my life. I can't go on like this. And the answer is not suicide. The answer is Jesus Christ. So I woke up and I said, today is Friday. I know they have this Bible study every Friday. from this branch. So I drove on Route 202. For you who know New Jersey, Route 202 is a very long road. But I knew more or less where it is. So I started looking for it. I wasn't sure where it is. So I started looking at every church, and I would go, there's no cars. Until I ended up in Willis-Toburn. Nobody told me it's a restaurant that they meet on. And there's where I met Jesus Christ. Barry, who you know, So I walk in there, everybody was doing that, and everybody just looked at me. Who's this guy who just walked in? And I said, I want to join you guys. And I said, but I don't have a Bible. So Barry handed me a Bible, and I just felt so good at it. I just felt so good. I said, all the troubles in the world is gone. I mean, it's there, but I'm not getting it anymore. Anyway, after that first session, I sat down with Barry, Jesus Christ thing again. I said, what is this, really? So Barry started telling me, he started asking me, do I know Jesus Christ? I said, of course I know Jesus Christ. I'm a good Christian. But he says, do you know that he's your Savior? I said, I've always known, when we pray some prayers, we say Savior of the world. No, but do you know he's your personal Savior? That's when I realized, when I knew I'd been saved, because I understood what Jesus Christ meant to me at that point. I am a very intense person, and again, my friends know this. I needed to be always in control. You should see me, my old life, my old business life, I'm always in control. I use four-letter words, use all kinds of, to get what I want. It has to be what I want. I want to be in control. Then when I started learning about Jesus Christ, we're not in control, I'm not in control, it's Jesus Christ in control. All of these things that are happening, it's his will. I've learned since then that giving up control doesn't mean that I've lost control. that means Jesus Christ is in control and I'm just letting him do his will I struggle now and then about that because 40 odd years of being in control of your life versus 6 months of giving up to Jesus Christ is such a struggle it is still a struggle but I know I don't get into that kind of depression anymore where tomorrow there's no more tomorrow there's something thing. Tomorrow there's life. There's everlasting life. If I die today, I know I'll meet Jesus Christ. I'm not going to be dishonest by telling you every now and then I go through the bumps and they hide. But I know now I look forward. I've got a Bible on my bed, which I keep going into. And it's not because I'm, how do you say it, holy roller. No, I just really want question about it. Every morning I listen to 99.1, WAWC. That's all I look for. And then in the Friday mornings, I just can't wait until I get there. I have to tell you a story as closing. Monday morning, I had a call from a friend of mine who I haven't seen for over a year. He did some work for us, some work. And perhaps over the year, the past year, I talked to him twice on the phone, just saying hello. One morning he said, Ben, I'm off today. Can I come and see you just to say hello? I said, of course, Oliver. I want to see you. I haven't seen you for a while. So he comes and I said, come about 11.30 because I have stopped meeting until about 11 and come. So he sits there. He was happy. We, and I'll use the word, I hope you understand, we bullshitted, okay? You know, this is nice, that's nice, you know, how are the kids and so on. Never did I mention to him Jesus Christ, okay? He died that evening of a heart attack. Well, not that evening, the next evening. he died. I felt so jolted. I felt so shocked. Not only because he seems like he came just to say goodbye, and I didn't do my job. But I don't know, because I don't know what his relationship with Jesus Christ is. But I still felt that I had two hours with him. I could have at least said, I could have at least said, do you know Jesus Christ? Last night we went to the funeral. I really in tears. But I think he's with the Lord. I just felt that when I was told, when my wife called me and said, you know, Oliver died last night. I was in shock. But I probably was more in shock in that doing my duty. But the bright side of it, I think, is it teaches, well, I shouldn't say it teaches me, it teaches us a lesson that we should always be aware Christ is there. Here I am, six months, almost to the day when I embraced and grown to know Jesus Christ. And I'm teaching you what to do. I mean, you guys probably have been here for many, many years. I've been only at it for six months, but I know I have the joy now. I still have the problems. The company may go bankrupt tomorrow. Okay? I may run out of money, but believe me, my heart with Jesus Christ will never go bankrupt. because I know I'm there. I use a word that says I'm hooked. I'm hooked to Jesus Christ. Thank you very much. Thank you. I'm referring to him a couple times now in this next talk because what I'd like to do are all with me on the model that I gave you last night. And the best way to do it is to use illustrations. Ben just gave me a great illustration. First of all, anybody who gets this thing on tape, you need to get a little piece of paper that says, what does it say on it, that we're looking at last night, the stress force field. And whoever's packaging these tapes and giving these things to anybody or selling them to anybody needs to make sure that there's a sheet of paper force field on it. What I'd like to do is, I know I'm supposed to do questions and answers tonight, but I'm going to have to, I can't move on and look at a slice of this sheet or a slice of this model until I know you got the model down. So let's spend a little bit of time on the model. Let's summarize it and go over it. You know, see, for example, and the slice that I'd like to talk about if we get a chance this morning, is to talk about the slice of self-image. You see, we said that there's stress, a stressor, and there's also, which you have to attack, but there's also anti-stress forces that you've got to engage. What Ben was saying, for example, is that when his, if you take a look at the second slice, the time pressure performance problems, the stressor on the one side was that there was more work than he could do. he didn't make it all the way to seven days a week, fortunately. He was only working six days a week, 12 hours a day. You call that a time performance stress, and there's so much to do. And how do you handle that? Of course, you try to manage your time, you try to be efficient, but you notice there was an anti-stress force that he needed in his life that he didn't have. And the anti-stress force was a Christian self-image. and what i mean by that is he said if my business goes down if i remember correctly i uh if my business goes down i don't want to live if i lose money or my business isn't successful i don't have any reason to live i've got no meaning in life in other words it's it's not just i had too much work but my work was my salvation my work was what made me have meaning in life what made me sure that i deserve to live and you see the trouble of course is that you've got to work on both sides of that you can't say on the one hand who cares about work well god you know the reason you need to work is god invented you to work the book of genesis tells us that god put us here to work and we do find our satisfaction and work and we do need to do a good job at our job or we can't live with ourselves on the other hand when that good work you can in other words you don't eliminate work. A lot of people say, I just like to have a hundred-year paid vacation. You know, people who are able to do that, people who are able to come in and do enough money so they don't have to work, begin to realize that doesn't really deal with the stress in their lives to get rid of work. Does it? You start to get very antsy. You start to get very restless. You start to get very unhappy. Work is important. And to actually have more than you can do is part of what it means to work. That's stress. And you have to deal with that stress and you have to deal with stress in ways like that. But on the other hand, if your work is your salvation, if you don't have any other savior but your work, then the anti-stress force that has to happen in your life is you have to make sure that Jesus becomes your savior and your salvation rather than your work. And that's what happened to Ben. Now, he's still got the stress of work, but he's got an anti-stress force in his life that he says. And in fact, all your testimonies are going to say, I didn't get rid of all my problems, but now I can deal with them. That's all. What he's doing is he's just giving you a case study of that slice. Are you getting it? Let me kind of review it, or let me give you another example of it. I'd like to get into that Christian self-image. I'd like to get into it today, but I also don't want to pass anybody. If you're looking at that sheet, we said it's stress. It's the body's response to an obstacle or a threat that gets you ready to deal with things senses and all of your capacities ready to deal with an obstacle or a threat. We said that stress is meant to be spent. It's meant to be dealt. It's meant to be used to deal with a threat or obstacle. And if you don't spend it, if you don't deal with things, if you hold it inside, it just burns your body up. You're just consumed. And therefore, we said also, the way the sheet is set up, you can therefore look at it's a very complicated thing. You can see that there's really three parts to a stress experience. There's the reaction itself. There's the feeling of tenseness and the feeling of stress, you might call it. Then there's the stressors. Those are the things that are causing the problem. Too much work. Or the threat that you might lose something. Or the actual loss of something. Or a conflict with someone. Or your conscience coming at you because of something And those are the stressors. Those are the things that come at you. And then on the other hand, there's the things in your life, there's the forces in your life that resist the stress, that push it back, that make it possible for you to deal with it. And therefore, it's complicated. When you're under stress, you can basically, we said last night, you have three basic strategies. One is you can work on your stress reaction itself through relaxation techniques. You know, count to ten before you say something. That's basically working right on the reaction. You know, walk out of the room and get a grip on yourself. Or at night, you know, you read the books or you hear about relaxation techniques. Focus on a sandy beach. Empty your mind of everything else. Breathe deeply and count your breaths. close your eyes. Relax all your muscles. Starting with your feet and up to your face. Now look. I'm not saying there's anything wrong with that. I just said last night that in many cases that's necessary to deal with the next moment. It may be necessary to deal right with your stress reactions just to get to sleep at night. There's nothing wrong with relaxing. Doing some relaxation techniques. Walking out of the room or counting to ten may be the only way you can get through a conversation. There's nothing wrong with that. But we said that's ultimately superficial. superficial. All right. When it comes to looking on the right side, identifying the stress forces, in some cases, I know just from talking to some of you that just having, just breaking out the stress forces into six categories, I'm sure there's more, but just breaking them out helps you say, yeah, now what's coming at me? When you take a look at those, you'll see one of the ways to deal with stress is to try to remove them. Try to remove them. In a battle, if somebody's coming at you with a knife. How do you deal with the stress that you feel? You don't worry about anti-stress forces at a time like that. You don't say, I need more life balance. I need more time off. What you do is you have to deal with the threat. You have to get rid of the knife. You know. You knock the knife away. You do something about it. In the same way, one of the approaches is to go down a list of stresses and say, what can I do about it? You have something. For example, look at the top one, anticipatory stresses, which is worry. Jesus says in Matthew 6, he says, don't worry about tomorrow. Tomorrow will take care of itself. Worry about today. One of the big ways to deal with worry is to say, let me break down what I'm worried about. What can I do nothing about, and what can I do something about? And what I can do something about, let me do. Very important. If you're worried at night and you can't get to sleep, to do is I turn on the light and I jot down a plan. Here's what I'm going to do tomorrow. In other words, that's what I can do tonight. It's nothing except jot down a plan, but just jotting it down, just writing it down, doing something. That's what I think what Jesus means in Matthew 6. Finding what I can do now and doing it is a way of doing direct action on that stressor. Or when it comes to time stressors, time management. Why do you have too much to do? We said on this side of the diagram, you might have too much to do because you're just not using your time efficiently. Maybe you need to go to a time management seminar. Sometimes that helps. Or maybe somebody's giving you too much to do, in which case you need to confront them or you need to quit. See, that's doing something direct about the stressor. On the other side, as we were mentioning, though, it could be the real problem is that you're, as we're going to get to in a moment, you just can't say no. You yourself are, you're the guilty one. You're the one taking on too much. But is there something you can do about the stressor? Time management or quitting or being direct with the people who are sending you too much? Sure. You do something. Get rid of the knife. Knock it out. Or under conflict, for example, under relational stressors, under conflict, aggressively with a stressor. One of the things you can do in some cases is forgive. You know, forgiving is a tremendously aggressive thing. You have to forgive. You have to confront. You have to swallow your own pride. You have to confess. You have to do something aggressive. If you sit there with a conflict and you don't know what it is that you can do. There's almost always something you can do. In many cases, you have to confess. You have to forgive. You have It says in Romans 12, it says, as much as it depends on you live at peace with all men, that means if you do everything you possibly can and the person is still hostile, you need to get away. But that's doing something with a stressor. Conscience, we see number five. How do you do something with a stressor? How do you knock the knife away? How do you do something about it? When it comes to guilt, in some cases you have to recognize the fact that you may need to stop doing something that your conscience is killing you over, or you may need to make some kind of restitution. In other words, you go down the left side and you look at the stressors and you say, I've got stress in my life. Why? Because it's actually a divinely given part of my physiological makeup. I've got energy to do something, so let me do. let me deal with the worry. Let me deal with the time problem. Let me deal with the... I've skipped over the changes and losses. As you know, we'll talk about that tonight. Because that's the sort of thing that it's stressful. Because you can't do anything about the fact that your best friend died. We'll talk about that. Now. You can't do anything about that. You can only deal with the anti-stress forces. In a case like that. So. The one thing. As you look down the left side. And you say. What can I do. But. The other part. Of. This. See. That. There's. Three strategies. With. Stress. One. Is. You. Deal. With. The. Reaction. The second is you deal with the stressors. That's on the left. And then thirdly, you have to increase the anti-stress forces. Now, it's the anti-stress forces and dealing with them that you come confronted with your sin, usually. Because ultimately, there was a choice given to Adam and Eve in the garden. They could approach life as if they were under God, or they could approach life as if they were God. We said that last night. The choice was given by the serpent, basically. The serpent said, take hold of yourself. Take control. Ben was using that term a lot this morning. Take control, said the serpent to Adam and Eve. Be in charge of your own life, and you will be as God. Let life depend on you. Let everything depend on you. Let your salvation depend on you. You can do it. How American to say, you can do anything you want to do. That's exactly what the serpent did. great. He would have been great in commercials. You can do anything you want to do. And that was the choice Ab and Eve had before them. The serpents would be God, and the way they were created to be under God. You've got the same choice. In every stress situation, you can approach it as if you are God, saying, it all depends on me. Or you can approach it as if you are a creature, not a Creator, as if you're dependent, as if you can't accomplish your salvation through your work, as if you can't control the situation and be the ruler of the universe. "'Let Philip cease to rule the world,' said Luther, which means, stop worrying," which is the same thing. Now if you want to see a great spot in the Scripture that talks about stress, you can go to 2 Corinthians 4. You can go to 2 Corinthians 4 where Paul says, we are troubled on every side, but we're not distressed. The word for distress that he uses is strangled,

constricted, almost like he really means, very much like what the medical people will tell you happens to stress. You tighten up. You can feel yourself tighten. Paul says we're troubled, but we're not distressed. And he says why. At the very end he says because we look not to the things which are seen, but to the things which are unseen. For the things that are seen are temporary. The things that are unseen are eternal. In other words, when you look at only the seen, this is my life. Just the seen. If I don't make the money, if I don't have the health, if I don't have the comfort, if things don't work well here, this is my life. All the freight of my hopes and dreams are right here. This is everything. everything. Or you are everything. I'm God. I'm the one in charge of everything. It's all up to me. If I don't pull it off, if it doesn't work out according to my agenda, if I don't pull it off, then everything is lost. That's approaching your situation as if you're God. Paul says the reason he's troubled, which is kind of interesting. The word troubled means to be crowded. I was looking this up. The Greek word for trouble that Paul uses means to be crowded. It means to be in a narrow to mean pinched. But the word distressed means to be choked. It's almost like Paul says, look, it's okay to be crowded by my stress, but not to be choked. Stress is all right, in other words. To be crowded is all right. You expect stress. Stress is fine. But I'm not choked because I don't just look at the scene. I don't come at these things as if I'm God. And so you see, what it means to deal with anti... To strengthen anti-stress forces. It's very theological. How do you deal with how do you strengthen your anti-stress forces against worry? You say, I am not in charge of the universe. I am not in control. God's in control. How do you deal, we said, how do you strengthen the anti-stress forces against all of these requirements for you to perform and there's not enough The answer is, I am not my own Savior. I can't accomplish my salvation by living up to all these expectations. Jesus has done that for me. And as you look down the list, you see in every situation, in most of those cases, you have to begin to say, you have to look not just to the seen, but to the unseen. See, to look to the unseen, to look at the bigger perspective, to realize that your things and time and your abilities are only part of the whole, that there's a God besides you, that there's a world that's even bigger. The reason that Bilney was able to die in the flames, we talked about him, with his hands to the end of the sky, with a smile on his face saying, fear not, for I will be with you. When you walk through the fire, you will not be burned. I would think that some people would have been looking at him saying,

you got some guts quoting that verse. You know, why not say, I look unto the, you know, I lift my eyes to the hills from whence cometh my help. You know, that would be all right. My help cometh from the Lord. How dare you say, when you're actually literally being burned up as you speak, that when the fire touches you, you will not be burned. What he was saying is, he's looking to the unseen. That's how he dealt with the stress. huh he says nothing really important am i losing today this is all very temporary i'm gonna get my body back god's gonna give me a new body this isn't my life i'm not god you see he looked at the unseen and he dealt with stress like most of you haven't yet dealt with at least i mean you've had trouble. Your boss has been bad, but he hasn't burned you to steak yet. So the point is, how did he handle it? He was crowded. He was troubled, but he wasn't choked. He was troubled, but he wasn't distressed, using the words distressed in that strong way of choking that Paul means. How did he do it? He looked to the unseen. Basically, the way in which you deal with you strengthen anti-stress forces is to look to the unseen, especially at the top. Now, okay, now, you see how, by the way, do you see how complex this is? Do you see in a way why you can't just go to a doctor when you're under stress, or just to a pastor, or just to a psychologist in many cases, but you often need a team? Nor can you say this is the key. See, for example, is that me? Yeah, how about that? For example, not only do you have three, You see, now that you have three categories across the bottom. You're going to deal with the stressors. You have to deal with the anti-stressors. And you have to deal with the stress. And you have to know the difference. You know that little place where that little prayer. That nobody's sure who really said it. You know, grant me the strength to change things I can. And the submission to accept things I can't change. And the wisdom to know the difference. That's very, very, very close to what Jesus says in Matthew 6. He says, if you have anxiety, on the one hand, consider that God's in charge. On the other hand, work today instead of worrying about tomorrow. So there's a sense in which what Jesus is doing is saying, if you've got worries, on the one hand, the things that you have something to do about, don't be paralyzed with fear, do it. The things that you have no control over, that's the place where you deal with the anti-stress forces and say, the reason I'm being eaten up is because I need to be in control of my life. I want to be God. the thing the serpent told me to do in the garden. And I won't let him push me around anymore. Get mad at him. And your worry is basically a way of getting, a way of him pushing you around. The ability to know the difference. Stress, anti-stress, and the stressors, the anti-stressors, and the stress. All of them have to be dealt with. Not only that, but if you look at all the different categories, you'll very often see that you've got to work in every area. Let me just give you one example, give you one and you tell me about it. Then and only then can I really move on at all. For example, I had a friend of mine when I was a pastor in Virginia. I won't mention his name, but anyway, when his brother died, he had a brother who died, and this fellow had what we call a nervous breakdown, which is a very, very general way of saying the stress got to him. He started to get very disoriented. It was a, he, and I don't have to go in and try to give you all the clinical explanation of it. He had a nervous breakdown. Now, because I really wasn't as nearly as skillful a physician of the soul as I should have been at the time, I can look back now and see that over a period of a couple of years, bit by bit, through God's help, I did this and a number of his friends a number of people around him eventually helped him put his life back together again but if we had really thought about the multi-dimensionality of stress it would have worked you see first of all why did he why did he have what did this what why did the stress tear him apart first of all he experienced the loss all right that was number three he experienced a loss. And he wrestled with that as a Christian. But here were some other problems. First of all, he felt tremendously guilty because, and this, didn't realize this, because he had not spent time with his brother. Not only that, see, that's number five. Not only that, being a southern white male, he didn't want to tell anybody about how bad he felt, so he had no support. That's number four. That's the fourth category. Not only that, and I just jotted a few things down here, but I didn't realize this. He was a jogger. He stopped jogging. He used to jog five to ten miles a day, and when he got upset about all this stuff, he stopped jogging totally. And immediately his body that was used to jogging like crazy was trying to absorb that. And then not only that, he began to worry extremely about his own health because he wasn't sure of his own salvation. Because his brother, who was only a year or too older than he was and died kind of unexpectedly. And suddenly this guy started to be afraid of death. Now, how do you help a person with stress? Don't you see how multidimensional it is? You see, for example, what ended up having to happen was he had to go back and he had gotten his life out of balance. He had to start the exercise again. He had a deal. He had to go back and jog. He had to do it. Secondly, there was a group of men that decided they were going to form a support group, and even though they weren't going to force their way in, they were just going to hang out with him until he started talking. He was just going to be there, going to take turns coming over, spending time with him, being there. If he just sort of stared at him, didn't do anything, they felt, well, we're still doing our job, and eventually he opened up. Thirdly, he had to realize that how do you deal with the guilt of having been a bad brother? The way you deal with a guilt. The conscience, which was a stressor here. Number one, he had to actually go to God, and he had to make things right with God. But then secondly, he had other brothers. And the way he was able to deal with his guilt over his, the brother that he didn't spend time with, was he was able to not only repent to God, but make a certain kind of restitution by reestablishing and invigorating his relationships with his other siblings. But then not only that, he had to go and rethink about his real relationship with God, because his lack of

and now the reality of death that came home through the death of his brother who was similar age meant that unless he knew that he was a Christian, unless he got all that straight, there was no way he could deal with his life. You know, one of the reasons why a lot of people deal with stress is because they deny... You know, it's funny that very often non-Christian psychologists will tell you an awful lot about defense mechanisms, and one of them is denial. What's What's really funny is that non-Christians have to deny the fact that the only certainty they have is that they're going to die. There's nothing else, nothing else about your future that's certain. Not one thing. Nothing else you're planning for. And therefore, as I like to say, unless you are prepared to die tomorrow without fear or regret, you're really not prepared for your future. You're out of touch with reality. You see, a non-Christian has to live like that. So that is a permanent defense mechanism. That's a permanent form of insanity unless you know you're going to heaven through Jesus. Now the point is, what did this guy need? He needed all kinds of things. He needed to sit down with a chart, in a sense, and circle all sorts of stuff. And whenever he thought, or whenever his wife thought, or whenever I thought, this is the problem. You know, we circled one and we went after it. We said, this is the whole problem. We found out that we weren't getting anywhere, because God has made us into body and soul. He's made us into a complex being, and he needed the support. He needed to be working on the fourth slice, the relational stressors, the fifth slice, the conscience stressors, the third slice, just to come to grips with the fact that God has the right to take people to a big problem. You know, you read the Bible, it says our days are numbered. That's fine as long as they're 90 years long. And the idea that since God owns people and he has given you everybody, in a sense, on a loan, you know, if somebody says, look, and this isn't your car, this is my car, but I'm going to let you drive this car. And the person gives it to you. And that's great, great, free, a free car. You didn't earn it. Drives it all over the place. And then one day your friend calls up and says, I need it back. What do you say? How dare you? No, you say, gee, it was great that you let me use the car for free all this time. I mean, it's been months. It's been weeks or months. Thank you so much. Of course I'll give you the car back. See, every person in our life is like that. It's a free gift from God, a free loan in a sense that, you know, that we don't belong to ourselves, and neither do your parents and your friends and so on. And when God says, I want that person back, we really shouldn't get on the phone and yell. See, that's a perspective. That's an anti-stressor to say, I see that. And you see, this fellow needed to work on all of those things, and when all of them began to get worked on, he pulled himself out of the slough of despond. He needed to start jogging and all that. Okay, let me ask you a question. Just don't be afraid to call it out. I know this isn't, I'm up here, and you're down there, and I'm mic'd, and you're not, and so maybe you feel funny about this. Let's just say, here's a person who's just been fired and lost a really good job, okay? That's stress. You're not going to be able to help your friend, or you yourself are not going to be able to deal with your stress if you're the one who's just lost the job, unless you can break it down. Think about this theologically. Think about this specifically. Looking at your little sheet, what are some of the slices of things that might have to be dealt with? What would be some of them? What could be? I'm just, you know, I'm just positing. Yeah, back there? Yeah, okay. Let's see the first. I'm glad you're at that. The first thing is, as we were saying today, if you get, everybody gets satisfaction out of your job, but the sister which means it may go deeper than that. And that is, this might be my very identity. You know, here is a person who says, I'm a Christian, but basically, you know, I get my identity from Christ, but basically you get your identity from being successful here. And sometimes the only way to find out what your saviors really are is for one of them to be pulled out from under you. And there has to be a radical, there may have to be a radical rediscovery of who Jesus is to you, absolutely. Somebody else? Yeah, right, the finances. Is God going to take care of me and my family in this situation? Absolutely. Somebody else? Dawn, the expert, go ahead. Right. Right. Right. That's right. What happens is, what Dawn's saying is the relationship stressors, you might not think of this, but the people you were hanging out with that were your basic support group usually might have been the people at work.