The reading of scripture on which the text on which the teaching is based today is in your bulletin. I'm going to read you from Mark chapter 12 verses 28 to 34. One of the teachers of the law came and heard them debating. Noticing that Jesus had given them a good answer, he asked him, of all the commandments, which is the most important? The most important one answered Jesus is this, The second is this,

Well said, teacher. The man replied, You are right in saying that God is one and that there is no other but him. him. To love him with all your heart and with all your understanding, with all your strength, and to love your neighbor as yourself is more important than all burnt offerings and sacrifices. And when Jesus heard that he'd answered wisely, he said to him, you are not far from the kingdom of God. And from then on, no one dared ask him any more questions.

Now, what we're doing is a series, at least when I'm here this summer, we're doing, I'm going to on places where people debated with Jesus, asked questions, contended with him. And the number of subjects on which people debated with Jesus is very wide, and the subjects are very interesting. And today we get to a question, the nature of morality and of the moral life.

And you can hardly find a more relevant one subject for us now. You know, people don't maybe recognize just what a unique time and place we live in. There has never been a society, there's never been a time in which issues of what is moral have been more in contention and debate, and here's the reason why. Over the years, over the centuries, there have been plenty of cultures in which people argued about whether a particular thing was moral or immoral. But the arguments have always been inside, in every society, the arguments have always been inside a consensus view of what is moral, a consensus view of the moral life. In other words, arguments always happen inside a Confucianist culture, or a Hindu culture, or a Protestant culture, a Catholic culture, Orthodox culture, or a communist culture, which was officially atheist. But what we have today is we have a situation in which, which is really unique in history, where we have a society in which the social institutions don't give people a consensus view of the moral life at all. There is no consensus that there even is a transcendent moral code, that there even is an ultimate moral code. And therefore, we have more debates about the nature of morality and the nature of the moral life than any society has ever had, and it's going to keep on going in that way. So it's interesting to look at what Jesus says here. Now, what he says here is so familiar. I just remember the first time I visited some friends of a family in a town in Virginia where I was a pastor. And we're sitting there just drinking tea or something like that. And all of a sudden, this enormous, it sounded like a car was coming through the window. And I jumped up. And I said, what was that? And they said, what was what? Because it was the train. The train went right by their house, about seven feet from the wall. And they, of holy smoke, how do you live with that? And they said, live with what? And don't ask a fish to write you an essay on water, because the fish will say, what's water? Now, in the same way, this is so familiar, and yet I was just so amazed with the profundity of what Jesus teaches here. And I'm sorry, I mean, partly because I'm not as eloquent a person as I'd like to be. I'm going to keep using a word radical. I'm sorry, but it's just going to keep happening, I can tell you. This is radical teaching. This is unique teaching about the nature of morality and the moral life. Let's take a look at it. The passage actually breaks down very nicely into three parts, and that's how we'll look at it. See, in verse 28, we have a question in which we learn the problem we all have. And then verses 29 to 31, Jesus Christ outlines the life we all need. And then, interestingly enough, when the questioner comes back and Jesus dialogues with him, in verses 32 to 34, we have that passage, that part points to the journey we all need to take in order to get there. See, there's the problem we all have, the life we all need, and lastly, the journey we must all take in order to get there. Let's look at them. First of all, the first about the problem we all have. Teacher, see, along comes one of the teachers of the law, and he says, of all the commandments, which is the most important? Now the teachers of the law, look carefully, who is this guy? One of the teachers of the law came and heard them debating, and he noticed that Jesus had given them a good answer. Now, who's them? Actually, though, we looked at the Matthew version of the debate. He's looking at the answer Jesus just gave to the Sadducees, and we just studied that passage last week. Even though we didn't study it in Mark, we studied the Matthew version. The Sadducees were the liberals of the day. They didn't believe in an afterlife. They didn't believe in a supernatural. They didn't believe in anything beyond this life. And Jesus had, as we saw last week, done a brilliant job of refuting them. And that's the good answer that this guy notices. But who is this man? The teacher of the law, the legal scholars of the time were Pharisees. They weren't, all Pharisees weren't teachers of the law, but all teachers of the law pretty much were Pharisees. So the Sadducees were the exact opposite. They were what you might call the liberals of the day. The Pharisees were the religious conservatives of the day. And he comes in with a question, and that question, though he asks it, was not his own personal formulation. This was a very, very hot issue. you. The question he asked was hotly debated at the time, and what he's asking is this. We know, basically he's saying, let me give you the context, he's saying, we religious conservatives, we know that we must obey the law of God if we're going to get his blessing and his love and his acceptance. But we have discerned there are at least 613 distinguishable laws in the scripture. And by the way, that's true. I bring that up because the Pharisees of that time had, you know, done all their sifting and thinking and categorizing. They come up with at least 613, you know, 613. You thought 10 was bad. 613 distinguishable laws, 613. So here's what the question is. He comes and he says, the reason we're debating this, and we'd like your guidance on this, is on the one hand, we know that if we're going to get God's love and acceptance and 613 laws. How crushing is that? Who could possibly live up to that? We're hopeless, you see, if that's what we have to do. And therefore, I just noticed, oh Jesus, that you believe in heaven. Great. That was in yesterday's, last week's debate. Now, what are the minimum requirements for getting into heaven? Surely, we don't need to obey all 613. Surely, some of the laws are more important than others. Surely, there's a couple of basics that we really have

and help us. We have to obey the law in order to get God's love and acceptance, but help us. Help us to whittle the law into a form that is doable, that's satisfiable, that's achievable, that's fulfillable. What is the main thing we have to do? What's the chief law? What are the chief laws? And that's what he's asking. So he's saying, look, we're not relativists like those Sadducees. We believe there is a transcendent moral code that everybody owes to God. But is the only alternative to relativism some kind of moral absolutism, so that we're just going to be ground into the ground by an impossible standard, never living up, always being experiencing guilt and condemnation and despair? Is that it? Help us. And that's the law. That's the question. Now, Now, somebody out there might say, well, that's interesting. Thank you. I appreciate the historical background. But what does an obscure first century Jewish rabbinical controversy have to do with us? And the answer is, I would say everything, because what we have here, though it is actually an obscure first century Jewish controversy, it really is a reflection of a universal human problem, a very ancient human problem. them. A great example of this actually is in the novel which last week, pardon me, last year, last year, was made into a movie, Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon. Now in the movie and in the book, there is a young aristocratic woman named Jen. And Jen is just chafing under the rules of her aristocratic upper class environment. The rigid rules. She hates them. She's about to be given in marriage to the son of some noble family, and it's all diplomatically necessary, and it's all economically necessary, and socially necessary, and she's chafing. And then she meets Shulene, and Shulene is a woman of the warrior class, okay? Basically a kind of knight or soldier. and they have a dialogue early in the movie and this is how the dialogue goes. Jen says, It must be exciting to be a warrior, to be totally free. I've read all about people like you, roaming wild, beating up anyone who gets in your way. And Shulian says, Well, writers wouldn't sell many books if they told you how it really was. And Jen says, Oh, but to be absolutely free, to live my own life, that's true happiness. Now Shulian gets very serious. She says, no, there are always rules. Fighters have to have rules too or we wouldn't survive. Honor, trust, integrity, without rules, we wouldn't survive for long, but they are hard. And Jen says, but I wish I was like the heroes in the book I read like you and Li Mu Bai. Then Shulian says, let me tell you a story. She says, I was engaged once. I was engaged to Meng. He was brother to Li Mu Bai by oath,

by the sword of our enemy. Afterwards, Li Mu Bai and I, our feelings grew for each other, but how could we dishonor Meng's memory? So you see, there are always rules. You want my life, but the freedom you desire, I also desire. That's very interesting. Look, here's what is Jen saying. Jen is saying, I hate rules. Rules, they keep me from getting the love I want. I hate rules. I want to be free from rules. I want to write my own rules. I want to be like And Shulene says, let me tell you what life is like, oh young woman. There are always rules. You can't get away from rules. We couldn't survive without rules. And yet, I also, living this, you want my life? The rules kept me from having the love I want as well. The rules of honor, the rules of integrity, the rules of friendship, and so on. And so here's what she's saying. Let me tell you what the human life is like. We cannot live without rules.

To think we can is naive, but we cannot live with rules. They just crush us and keep us unhappy all of our lives. And that's life. You can't live without rules. Don't be so naive to be a relativist. Don't be so naive, young woman, to think you can write your own rules. It just won't Don't happen. There have to be rules. There's rules. There's things above you know there are. There's obligations. But on the other hand, it was what I love about what she says, she says on the one hand, there are rules. We can't live without rules. But on the other hand, she says to the relativist, don't be naive. But to the moralist, she says don't be naive. When you obey rules, they do crush you. They keep you. They're a burden. You can't live with rules. You can't live without rules. That's your life as a human being. That is true. If you read the rest of the book or watch the rest of the movie, it turns out that Jen is actually secretly a martial arts expert herself. However, she's torn between this deep desire to have a master, to have someone who could disciple her and make her the greatest. And she's torn between a desire for a master and also an utter fear and hatred of any master who would constrain her freedom. She wants a master. She hates a master. And actually, there's nothing but tragedy in and around her whole life because of this conflict. Now, that's how the movie goes. That's how the story goes. Now, the Bible will say there is no better picture of every human soul than that. Because you're made in the image of God, the Bible explains what Shulene is seeing. Because we're made in the image of God, we want a master. but because of the brokenness of our hearts and because of the brokenness of other people around us who oppress us we're scared of a master

and yet we can't get out you see relativism is naive but moralism that's what this guy is coming up here with on the one hand we know that there's a law we know there's a divine law we know there's obligation. We're not so stupid as to think we can write our own rules. And there's the tragedy in that story that tells you what happens when people think they can. But on the other hand, we also realize there's a problem with just simply submitting to the rules. You know, moralistic people and religious people who say, yes, we're just going to live a decent life. If you really understood what the rules require, you're just always going to be guilty and condemned and oppressed. We can't live with rules. We can't live without rules. help us, Jesus. Maybe there's just a couple of rules that we really need to obey. Let's split the difference. Is that a possibility? So the question reflects a problem we all have. We come to Jesus with the problem. Now, secondly, let's see what he says. And what he says in this, in response to the question, in response to the problem we all have, is he outlines or paints a picture of a life we all need. He paints a picture of the kind of life we ought to be living, and it's astounding. It's actually even a little bit ironic because you see the way he starts, see, he says of all the commandments, the question is which is the most important? And Jesus doesn't say, I'm not going to answer your question. He says, ah, well, the most important one is this. So now when he says the most important one is this, what he's actually doing is he's starting out by saying, okay, I'll tell you. So he's sort of bringing us in. But I want you to notice the last verse in this passage for a second. I want you to realize that what Jesus says, because it's so familiar to you, it's like a train going by your house so many times that you don't even hear it. And yet, when he was done, look what it says in verse 34, and from then on no one dared ask him any questions. That word dared, everybody was petrified. Everybody was petrified. They didn't listen and say, oh, isn't that sweet? Love. It's all about love. You see, that modern people read this and they, oh, it's all about love. Is that what they said? They must have been hearing something that Jesus was saying that we're not hearing because when it was, when he was done, they were dumbfounded. They were shocked, shell-shocked. They were petrified. They weren't even mad. They were too scared to be mad. They didn't dare ask him any question. So, you see, what Jesus does is he starts off by looking like he's going to answer the question, but what he actually does is he subverts the very premise of the religious persons who are asking the question. He just blows through all the very categories that human beings have for morality and moral life. And here's what he does. In this very, very familiar passage, what he actually does is he completely redefines the content of law-keeping, and he completely redefines the motive for law-keeping. He completely redefines the content of the law, what it really is after, and he completely redefines the motive of law-keeping, why you should do it. What you should be doing and why you should be doing it. Completely redefines them away from the way traditionally religious people in all religions have thought of the moral law. First of all, let me show you how he redefines the content. He says, one of the Ten Commandments. Most of the commentators say probably the listeners expected him to choose one or two of the Ten Commandments. If he had done that, then he would actually have been playing into the premise or the desire of the questioner. Because what the questioner was really trying to say is, help us whittle it down. Help us make a more sort of doable law. Tell us which parts of the law are really important. Now, what's intriguing is if he had chosen a commandment or two, it would have made him a liberal or a conservative. So this is the way most of us today deal with the law, the moral code that's come down to us, not just actually from the Bible, but actually if you look at the appendix of C.S. Lewis's Abolition of Man, where he goes and he takes a look at the ethical systems of all the different religions, they're really very, very similar. You know, they're not nearly as different as people like to think. and as it's come down, one of the ways in which people deal with it is we pick and choose which commands are important. For example, if Jesus Christ had chosen the parent command, honor your parents, and the sex command, don't commit adultery, he would have been a conservative. That's really important. But what if he had chosen instead, don't steal and don't bear false witness, which actually is not just about lying, but it's about distorting the justice system. So if he'd gotten into generosity and destroying the justice system, and he says, that's really important, it's not sex and parents and stuff like that, then he would have been a liberal. But he doesn't choose a couple of the commands and say, well, this is important and this is not. Instead, he chooses two places in the Scripture. He chooses Deuteronomy 6.4, which says, love God with all your heart, soul, strength, mind. And then he chooses Leviticus 19.18, love your neighbor as yourself. And these aren't, he chooses these two, and then he says, that's what the law is about. He's not saying just do these and forget the rest. See, the Matthew version of this passage, I chose the Mark version because it has the dialogue. Matthew leaves the dialogue out at the end. We have to look at that. But Matthew points out that when Jesus was doing this teaching. He said, on these two commandments of love, hang all of the law and prophets. Jesus says, on these two commandments of love, hangs all the law and the prophets. Whoo. Now, what? He is not saying these commandments are more important than these commandments, nor is he saying just love and you can forget all the rules. Instead, he says, until you understand that everything in the law is about love and that love is only given definition by the law, you don't understand what the law is really after. Now, let me show you what I mean. When he says all of the law boils down to these two commandments of love, all of the law boils down to love, he's saying something radical. You say, well, I've heard people, I've heard this idea. Well, let me show you how radical it is. I told you I'd use the word, I'm sorry. Here you go. go. First of all, what he's saying is love defines what it means to live lawfully. Love defines what it means to live lawfully. Love is what the law is always after, even though sometimes it's put in negative form. Example, what Jesus is saying here is if every law is basically about love, take a look at the law. Okay, let's look at the commandment, thou shalt not commit and adultery. The point of that commandment must be, though it's got a negative form, the point of that commandment is be an absolutely loving spouse. See, if you begin to understand what Jesus is saying here is, you cannot fulfill that commandment just by simply refraining from extramarital sex. That's calling you to be a completely loving spouse. Let's go on. Thou shalt not steal. The point, if Jesus is right, that the point of every commandment, even though it's put in a negative, is about love, then thou shalt not steal can only be fulfilled if you are radically and gladly generous to people around you.

Thou shalt not lie. The point of that would mean that you're supposed to live self-revealing lives with the people around you, not manipulating, not spinning. In other words, you can't fulfill the law thou shalt bear no false witness simply by refraining from perjury. You can't fulfill the law thou shalt not steal simply by refraining from embezzlement. You can't fulfill the law thou shalt not commit adultery simply by refraining from extra-marital affairs. What it's talking about is love for your spouse, love for your neighbor. And Jesus says, therefore, if you say you are living lawfully and you're a harsh person, an ungenerous person, a cold person, an unapproachable person, you're not. You don't even know what it's after. It's after love. All of these things boil down to love. So it's saying, live lawfully, but this is just as incredible. It also means the law defines what it means to live lovingly. See, if he says all the law boils down to love, he's not just saying that love defines what it means to act lawfully, that love is what every single law is about. And man, does that, you see, does that increase the demand of every law? Does that increase the breadth and demand of what God's law requires. But it also means that the law defines what it means to be loving. See, now, it's very typical for modern people to say what's important is not the rules, but just to do the loving thing. Okay? Let me ask you a question, oh wise one. How do you know what the most beneficial thing is? You remember when you were 20 years old, the things you thought were loving, you now realize were utterly destructive to yourself Self and everybody around you now that you're 40? What makes you think you're so smart now? What's your 60-year-old Self going to think about your 40-year-old Self? And so on, okay? In other words, when a person says, don't obey God's law, just do the loving thing, when you say that, in fact, every single time you ever disobey God's law, every time you lie, every time you steal, every time you commit adultery, every time you break any of the God's what is actually the loving and beneficial thing to do. Better than God. But God created us. God created human society. He built us. History is complex. People are complex. The heart is complex. You hardly know a little bit of what really makes people tick or what you tick. And what Jesus is saying is incredibly radical. He says, when I say that all of the law basically boils down to love God and love others, I'm telling you why God wrote the law. God did not just write the law for busy work. God wrote the law to show you what the loving thing is to do, how to love. And therefore, love defines what it means to act lawfully, and law defines what it means to act lovingly. And only when you see that do you even begin to understand the content of the law. Now you begin to realize what's the problem here? There's a very big problem here. The Pharisee asked Jesus for help at whittling down the law and making it more doable and making it less crushing. But what has Jesus just done? Were you listening? By giving you the most positive possible view of the law, can you imagine, look how positive this is. Look at how incredibly positive this is. By giving the most positive and uplifting view of the law possible, he has just given us the most threatening and grinding understanding law that any teacher in the history of the world has ever given. But that's not all he does. We're not done. He not only redefines the content of the law, he redefines the motive. What comes first and what comes second in his little summary? What comes second is neighbor love, acting lovingly and justly to your neighbor. Okay, so what comes first? What does neighbor love flow out of? Love. A heart filled with love for God. Love, well, see, when Jesus Christ uses this term, he goes to Deuteronomy 6.4, love God with all your heart, soul, strength, mind, right? What does that mean? Now, this word love, we all know that love has a lot of different aspects, and it can mean a lot of different things. Loving your enemy doesn't necessarily mean feel affection for him, right? To love your enemy might mean to forgive and to do the right thing. We all know when the Bible says love your enemy, it doesn't mean, you know, lump up affection. It means, you know, refrain from revengeance and so forth. So what does the word mean here? Well, it explains. The only motivation for law-keeping, you see, for doing all the things God commands you do with your fellow man and woman, okay? The only possible source of law-keeping would be a heart that is Just heads over heel in love with Jesus. Heads over heel in love with God and the Lord. There has to be passion. There has to be delight. Love God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind, with all your might, your strength, your might. It's using language that we only use to talk about people who are passionately in love with each other. And here's what Jesus is saying. You must not at all think that the law will be anything other than an oppressive, killing agent in your life unless the reason you keep it is because you already have a passionate, rapturous love relationship with God. Do you see that this completely destroys both the liberal and the conservative approach to the law? The liberal approach to the law is the relativistic approach. It's the one that says, well, you know, you have to make up your own rules and who's to say what's right and wrong. Now, he dealt with those people last week, but the point is, obviously, this does not go along those lines. This is not saying, oh, the law doesn't matter. Well, Jesus Christ is giving us a heavier view of the law than anybody has. But on the other hand, here's what he's saying to conservatives. Remember the premise of the question? What's the premise? The premise of the question was this. We know we have to get God's love and acceptance by keeping the law. So how do we do that? Jesus says, that's the wrong one question. If you ever try to get love by keeping the law, if you ever try to get other people's love, if you ever try to get God's love, if you ever try to get self-love, self-esteem by keeping the law, if you say, I'm going to keep the law so God will love me, so I will feel good about myself and other people will respect me, he says the law will be a destructive force in your life. You will have the same old problem that people have always had. You need the rules and you can't have the rules. You can't live without them. You can't live with them. You want a master. You're scared of a master. The only way the law becomes a force of health and holiness, and the only way the law becomes life-giving in your life and the life of the people around you is not when you ever, ever, ever obey in order to get anything, but only in order to give. already have the self-esteem. You've got to already have the love relationship with God. You've got to already have that, and therefore then you would do the things the law requires just for God's sake, just for truth's sake. Why should you tell the truth? Why should you tell the truth? The religious approach is this. The religious approach, you have to tell the truth, otherwise God won't let you go to heaven. That's fear. Or the religious approach says you better tell the truth, that way you know you're better than all these other sinful people who don't. That's pride. See, the religious approach that says we obey in order to get love from God bases every single act of obedience on fear and or pride. The reason you're honest is you're scared and or because you're proud. You're trying to get God's love so he doesn't send you to hell. You're trying to get other people's love and your own love so you feel like I'm a pretty good person and I don't tell lies. There's a problem with that. If the reason you're honest is out of fear and pride, and religiosity, that's the only motivation for obedience. If the reason behind your honesty is fear and pride, think about this. Why do you lie? Why does anybody lie? Because of fear and pride. What's going on in religious life Life is you're nurturing the roots of evil in the heart of your devotion to God, in the heart of your devoutness, in the heart of your religiosity, in coming to church and praying and reading the Bible and obeying, and you're doing it all in order to get love from God, get love from others, get your own self-love. If you obey like that, the motivation for ever telling the truth, for example, is out of fear or pride, which is the very thing that makes you oppress people, Makes you manipulate people and makes you tell lies. And someday the situation is going to change and you were raised in this good home and you were raised in this good church and someday the situation is going to change and suddenly you find yourself telling lies. And you'll say, how could that be? What's going on? What happened?

Because the law of God

hides who you really are from you, oppresses you, hurts you, oppresses others, hurts others, If you obey it in order to get love from God Self for others, instead of in order to give love to God Self and others, out of a heart already filled with love, out of a relationship with God you've already got that's filled with love and acceptance. And that's what Jesus is saying. Now you begin to realize why they're petrified? He's painting a picture of a life in which love and law are not at loggerheads, in which the rules do not crush. He's painting a picture, finally a situation in which law and love work together in complete integration in a life. And everybody goes after that, but then he says here's how it goes. You've got to already know that God loves you. You've got to already have an experience and a relationship of complete love and rapturous acceptance and passion and delight in God for who he is. And then out of that, when you obey the law, even if you do it fitfully, even if you do it imperfectly, it's going to bring all kinds of health and healing in your life and everybody else's around looking at him and saying, what planet did you come from? Because this is not liberalism, this is not conservatism, this is not halfway in the middle. This is not make up your own rules, this is not do all the rules, this is not here's just a couple. This is a whole new way of doing everything. And you've read it. How many times have you heard this passage? How many times have of you heard this? See, the reason that when they hear Him say the law is all about love, it comes from a loving heart with God, and it's all about love. And when you and I hear that, we say, isn't that nice? And when they heard that, they were petrified because they heard it. They got it. They understood it. Do you? Do I? Now, lastly, how do we get there? I mean, obviously, there's an obvious question. Here's a very obvious question. How in the world do you like that to be the basis of law keeping, when as far as we knew, the only way you could get it was through law keeping. Well, how does that happen? How in the world does that happen? What's interesting is the law expert says something, brings something up, which shows that he's on the way. The law expert begins to get it, and he says something that gets from Jesus Christ a amazingly, surprisingly positive response under the circumstances to say, you're on your way. You're on your way. Here's what he says. He says, Well said, teacher. You're right in saying God is one, there's no other but him. To love him with all your heart, all your understanding, all your strength, and to love your neighbor as yourself. Now suddenly, look what he brings in. Where was this from? Is more important than all the burnt offerings and sacrifices. Now what he's saying is just a little bit obscured by this translation more important. The word he uses here is exceeds.

You know, there's a place in Matthew 5, it's in the Sermon on the Mount, where Jesus says, unless your righteousness exceeds the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, a place like that, it's the same word. And here's what he's saying. He says, I suddenly see that what the law require exceeds all the burnt offerings and sacrifices I could ever make. Now, this is very interesting. because what the Pharisees believed and what they taught was simple. You can satisfy God, try your hardest to live a good life, and then occasionally you will fall down. Then what do you do? Very simple. You go and you make a sacrifice in the temple and ask for forgiveness. You do an offering or a sacrifice, and that closes the gap. Be obedient, you know, 80%, 90%, as hard as you can, and always be at 10% or 20%, and you cover that over with burnt offerings and sacrifices. And you're in. You're in. And this guy says, wait a minute, that'll never work. Because what you're telling me is both the content and the motive of the law. I am so far from. I am such a selfish person. I am so self-centered. I am such an unloving person, by your definition. All the burnt offerings and sacrifices in the world, if I sit every day for 24 hours and just to them, it'll never cover it. This requirement exceeds. I asked you to whittle down the requirement, and you made the requirement like this. And I realized, you're right. Obviously, this is how we should be living. Obviously, this is how we should be obeying. Obviously, this is how we should be being. But there's no way. And all the burnt offerings and sacrifices will never, ever close that gap. I'm lost. And Jesus says, now you're on your way to the kingdom Now, here's two things we learn. He says, you're not far from the kingdom. What does that mean? Two things. One is, you've moved. You've moved. And the first step to getting out of just being a kind of religious person, nurturing the very roots of evil in the heart of your moral life, filled with fear and pride, filled with either inferiority because you're not living up, or superiority because you think you are, because you're selective in the way you look at the law. law, the only way to get out of being an indifferent, inferior, or superior, or a little bit of both religious person, and beginning to get a transformed life, and begin to get that love relationship with God that has to be the thing from which all law-keeping flows out, is you have to admit that you're lost. Isn't this weird? He says the only way to unbelievable, perfect self-esteem is for you to lose all self-esteem. The only way to get a love beyond

is to admit you're less loving personally than you ever dared believe. The only way, in other words, to get to this love is to start with repentance. And you finally started to see. You finally started to see you can't possibly satisfy the law of God. You can't possibly do it. You're starting to get convicted. Good. He says, so not far from the kingdom means, number one, you're on your way. But number two, you're not there. And you know what's interesting? What's interesting about this? He doesn't tell them the next step.

now I've been meditating for a few days about this trying to say why doesn't he do that why doesn't he say oh let me show you how you can experience the grace of God he doesn't do that and I one of the things is this listen friends whether you're Christians or not I want you to know something grace is complicated you see the liberal vision is God loves everybody and we've just seen that's relativistic and that's just too easy and the concert of you is God only takes into heaven the people who are good. And we see that's too easy, that's ridiculous. People who say you can get into heaven only if you obey God aren't really obeying God. They're using God. They're not doing things out of love for Him, but out of fear and pride. So people say you can get into God by obeying the law. You can get into heaven by obeying the law. Actually can't obey the law even to begin with. They're not doing anything for God. They're doing it all for themselves. Jonathan Edwards says the difference between a religious person and a Christian. Religious people obey the law out of an empty heart, using God to try to fill it with blessings. And a real Christian is someone who obeys God out of a full heart, just simply trying to delight God and the people around us with who he is in himself. So we've seen that, for example, the liberal view that, hey, you make your own rules and God loves everybody is too simple. And the conservative view that, hey, you have to just live a really good life and if you're good you in. That's too simple. But grace is complicated. Grace is complicated because grace says this. First of all, you've got to see that you're a sinner. And then secondly, you've got to see that there's an ultimate burnt offering and that there's an ultimate sacrifice that all these other inadequate burnt offerings and sacrifices point to. The thing you forget because of the way in which I'm preaching on this, I've taken this text and I've set it down. Where did this happen? Where did this debate happen? If you go back to Mark 11, 27, you'll see it happen in the temple courts the day after Jesus cleansed the temple. And he was acting like the temple was obsolete. And he says things like, tear this temple down and I will rebuild it in three days. And they come to him, and here's how the debate starts. Who gives you the right to do this? And therefore, what Jesus Christ is saying here is simply this. Even though he doesn't come right up to the guy and say, let me tell you exactly what the second The second step is indicated by the whole context. What's the second step? The second step is you've got to see that there was only one who really offered the ultimate sacrifice for you, and in that ultimate sacrifice, which makes all the other sacrifices obsolete, and the temple itself obsolete, in that sacrifice, on the cross, is the one place where you can actually see this love life completely and utterly and brilliantly fulfilled. When Jesus Christ was on the cross, dying on the cross, he said, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? You realize that everybody else in the history of the world, God says this to, if you obey me, if you obey me, I will come to you, see? He's, but in one case, he says to Jesus Christ, if you obey me by going to the cross, I will send you to hell. I will punish you for their sake. I will do it all. You see, you're substituting yourself for them. And therefore, Jesus is the one person who, when he was on the cross, was crying, my God, my God, from hell. From hell. God has turned his back on him. That's the word forsaken. God had turned his back on him because he was taking our penalty. and yet from hell he was experiencing all the pain you would experience in hell. From hell he was saying My God. He was loving God from hell. He was loving God not for anything he was getting. He was loving God purely and perfectly just for who God was in himself. And at that moment not only do you have the only time in history that ever will be ever was that someone loved God sheerly for no benefit of any sort no prophet of any kind, but just obeyed just for God's sake and not for his own sake, he was doing it for us. He was doing it for us. So at that very moment, you have the ultimate example of someone who loved God with all his heart, all his soul, all his mind, all his strength, and he loved his neighbor more than himself. And Jesus says, when you see me doing that, that finally you have a master who's safe, a master who died for you. Finally, I can resolve that place in your life narrative that you always get stuck. You want a master, and you're scared of a master. You need rules, and yet you can't have rules. But I'm the one master that if you submit to me, because I died for you, you will find that I can accept you in spite of your imperfections, and now out of the love relationship we have, have surely by grace because I fulfilled the law for you. You can go out and start living a life imperfectly obeying the law and yet wholesomely obeying the law. Do you see it? The gospel first step is, I'm more wicked than I ever dared believe. And the second step is, because of Jesus Christ, I'm more loved and completely accepted than I ever dared hope now. The first step destroys pride. Pride, the second step, destroys fear. The first step is the humility that destroys the pride, and the second step is the affirmation that destroys the fear. So no longer do you have just a jury-rigged heart being honest out of fear and pride. You have a changed heart, changed by grace. Grace is complicated, and that means, and this is what I've decided this passage means, that Jesus didn't come all the way through and come right out explicitly and almost all of us have to come to Christ by process. If you're a Christian, you never completely understand grace. It's a process. You say you understand grace, and then you live as if you don't believe it. You say you believe God accepts you, and you're out there really living as if you've got to earn your salvation. You've got to earn His love. That's why you're filled with all the problems you're filled with. You never get grace because it's complicated. It takes a long time. And if you're not a Christian, you're not sure you're a Christian, if you're looking and saying, I'd like to come to Him, He says it's a journey. It takes time. Keep coming to Redeemer. Even if you only got one little piece this week and say, well, that made sense, but what about all the other things? Keep coming. You're not far. You're getting there. It's a journey. Grace is always a journey because it's the only really complicated approach. It's simple enough for a child. A four-year-old can become a Christian. I don't see how a four-year-old can do the eightfold path and find nirvana. I don't see how the four-year-old can say, I see that even though I'm lost, Jesus died for me and I trust in him. So in some ways, it's incredibly simple. In other ways, it's the most complicated. It's the least simplistic. And it takes time. Grace is complicated. You're on your way though, Jesus says, if you take what I have said here and think about it and begin moving in repentance toward my grace, do that. Let's pray. We thank you, Father, for the greatness of the wisdom of your son. But boy,

teacher. What a teacher. We're so grateful that he doesn't save us by his teaching. He saves us not by what he said, but what he did. Not by his teaching that we have to live up to, but by his death for us on the cross. There he loved you with all his heart, soul, strength, and mind. He loved his neighbor as himself perfectly for us in our place.