Chapter 1, verse 18 to 25, the Ten Commandments is the purpose, is the subject of a series for the next few weeks, and the first commandment is, Thou shalt have no other gods before me. That's the first commandment. Thou shalt have no other gods before me. And here is a New Testament exposition of that truth in Romans 1, 18 to 25. The wrath of God is being revealed from heaven against all godlessness and wickedness of men who suppress the truth by their wickedness. Since what may be known about God is plain to them because God has made it plain to them, for since the creation of the world, God's invisible qualities, his eternal power and divine nature have been clearly seen, being understood from what has been made so that men are without excuse. For although they knew God, they neither glorified him as God nor gave thanks to him, And their foolish hearts were darkened. Although they claimed to be wise, they became fools and exchanged the glory of the immortal God for images made to look like mortal man and birds and animals and reptiles. Therefore, God gave them over in the sinful desires of their hearts to sexual impurity for the degrading of their bodies with one another. They exchanged the truth of God for a lie and worshipped and served created things rather than the Creator, who forever is praised. Amen.

Now, the first commandment says, you shall have no other gods before me. It doesn't say you must have a god. It assumes you've got a god. The first commandment doesn't say it's important that you worship some god. and let it be me. The first commandment assumes whoever hears the command is worshipping something and it's a call to worship the true God. Same thing here. The assumption of the Bible and the teaching of the Bible is that we all worship something, that we all have gods. The reason this is the first of the commandments is because it's the sin beneath all the other sins. It's

It's the main thing that's wrong with us. To understand this commandment is to understand yourself more profoundly because this theme will show you who you are, why you act the way you act, why you feel the way you feel, why you're so upset today under your conditions. I mean, for example, haven't you noticed that sometimes you have a friend that seems very much like you and yet under the very same conditions, he or she seems to be just devastated, and you do well. But then on another set of conditions, in those same conditions, your friend seems to be doing very well, and you seem to be devastated. Why? Why is it that some things you dread and other things you don't? Why is it some things you worry about and other things you don't? Why is it that some things frighten you and other things don't? Why is it some things exhilarate you and other things don't? The Bible says, If you find out what your real religion is, what your real gods are, then you'll know. In other words, the Bible insists that the nature of religion is much more complex than we think. And the number of religions is far more vast than we would want to think. In fact, the Bible says that there are almost as many different religions as there are people. people. Which means, for example, some of you say, well, I'm an agnostic. Some of the others, others of you say, well, I don't know. I've got some beliefs, but basically I'm not a religious person. The Bible says nonsense. Everybody, it assumes everybody is worshiping something. Everybody has a religion. And so the nature of, of this particular text, and I would say the nature The true nature of this truth, this biblical truth, is to get you to look at what your real religion is. What is your religion? You see, not only do I say to the skeptics, you're not just a skeptic, you're not an agnostic. You've got a faith. You've got things that you are built into, that you are living for and living on. And we'll look at that in a minute. You have gods that you are adoring and worshipping. But I'll tell you this. I also say this to Christians. Christians, I ask you, what religion are you? And you say, I'm a Christian. Well, that's true. But it's not as simple as that. Because, Christian friends, the Bible shows us that your pre-Christian religion, the real religion, the real gods that you had before you became a Christian, you've brought them into the church with you. You've brought them into your Christian life with you. They're still there. The thrust of this text, The thrust of this command is this. Your heart wants to worship other gods. It always will. Your heart wants to worship other gods. It always will want to worship other gods. Oh, stop. See it and stop. That's what the command says. Your heart will always want to worship other gods. See it and stop. Now, let's see what the text actually teaches us. This, in all of the Bible, though there are many good texts about the subject of worshiping false gods, false lords, idols, this is probably the classic text. And so let me show you how it's all in here. Number one, first thing we see, that we do it. That we worship false lords, false gods, that we do it. And it says in verse 25, they exchanged the truth of God for a lie, and worshiped and served created things rather than the creator. alternatives. The Bible never shows you any alternative. You are either worshipping something that's created or you're worshipping the creator. But there's no alternative. Bob Dylan said, as well, you've got to serve somebody. And the Bible says you will adore something. You will live on something. You will rest on something. You will look to something to save you. you? Everybody does. Now, what is it? If you take a look, you'll see. The Bible says, therefore, that the need to worship is the need underneath all other needs. When you read your psychology books, when you read your sociology books, it talks about various drives, the need for power, the need for relationship. There's a lot of needs. In fact, our modern culture talks about needs all the time, and that's fine. All those needs are good. That's good analysis. Just see that all the needs is a need to worship. Is a need to fix your heart on something and give utter allegiance to it. You know, worship, one of the words in the Bible for worship means to prostrate yourself. One of the Greek words for worship means to prostrate yourself. To prostrate yourself means that you are completely vulnerable. You've put all of your weight on it. You're in a position of complete vulnerability. The Bible says, and I'm hoping that you will see as well, that even the person who says, I'm most anti-religion, I don't believe in God, even the greatest skeptic is utterly and completely

adoring something. There is something that you're... When a person says, I'm absolutely independent, then what is it? Your independence then becomes your God. There is something that is the unconditioned condition in your life. There is something that is the bottom line. is that? That which is unquestioned. That which is above everything and judges whether you are worthy or unworthy, whether anything is worthy or unworthy of your time or your heart. Sometimes you know what it is, but in many cases you don't want to admit it. You don't want to admit it. It says here, we worship and serve created things. Now the word worship is a word that has more to do with the internal, to see the awe before something. We worship created things means our heart is fixed on it. But then the word service means to obey. And it simply means, internally, we let certain things capture our imagination. And then because those things have captured our imagination, and because those things become the unconditioned condition in our life, The non-negotiable. The thing that will save us. The thing without which we have no meaning in life. We have to obey those things. Because we have fixed our heart on them, we have to obey them. Because we worship them, we serve them. And the Bible says everybody has got something or something. Something or someone who has our unquestioned loyalty. Who we're prostrated on. something that we have to have, something that we believe in, something that we never question.

Now, what are those things? We just said that we do it. What are those things? Now, the text gives us some ideas when it talks about sex. And the text gives us some ideas when it talks about images. But the fact is, the text tells us created things, which means, I think, that there are as many different gods as there are created things. So let me just give you some examples, but I want you to realize that they are nothing but illustration. And they can be very, very concrete, and they can be very abstract. In many cases, there's all sorts of combinations to them. Let me give you some that occasionally we mention, but are so obvious. Here's a song. You're nobody till somebody loves you. That's an idle construct. It's right out front. And many of you believe it. It has sunk down deep. You may be an agnostic. You may be an atheist. And yet, here's you and here's your friend. Okay? And neither of you had a date for a year and a half. And one of you is doing fine and one of you is devastated. Why? Idle constructs, my friends. You see, loneliness is natural. But there's a despairing loneliness. opposite sex. There's a self-loathing that comes that is not normal loneliness. It means romance is your Lord. And because you're not getting romance, your Lord is cursing you and saying you are nothing. You are, in fact, there's even a song that enables the Lord to sing to you. You're nobody because somebody doesn't love you. Do you believe that? Do you understand why of your lives are being fulfilled. Here you are, you're mad at women, or you're mad at men, or you're mad at the last one. Or you're frantic. In fact, maybe you have an eating disorder because you're frantic about your weight. But don't you see underneath this anger toward the other gender, underneath your bitterness toward your last spouse, underneath all the things, there is an idol. Because being lonely is natural. But there's a kind of loneliness which is the curse of a particular idol because the things we worship, we also serve. The things we worship, we're also obeying. We've got to do it. We've got to have it. It's an unquestioned thing. Well, let me give you another one. There's no song about it, but I'm thinking of one. You know, you can say romance or relationship is Lord and see how it distorts your life. Let me give you another one. Work. Now, I'm thinking of a song. You're nobody till somebody promotes you. I don't know if that's the right way. But, you see, there's a kind of person that wants to do well, and that works, and that maybe even overworks, or is frustrated because you're not doing real well. And then there's a kind of drivenness which is much more deep. It's the kind of drivenness that is far more deep. You've got something to prove. And you're going to prove it through your work. You are going to be great at it. is one of the reasons why, in some cases, why you can't work with anybody else because you are such a perfectionist. Because if anything goes wrong in the job you're doing, it reflects on you. What's that mean? It's your identity. Your work is an extension of who you are. You're nobody till somebody recognizes you. You're nobody till somebody awards you. You're nobody till somebody promotes you. Work is Lord. Do you see the a difference between work being something that is good, and if you're not working, or you're not doing well at work, and then you're unhappy, and work being your lord? Same thing with romance being lord. I'll give you another one. Some of you, now see, those are a little more concrete. Oh, well, I mean, let me give you even more concrete one. Downtown, I found it when I was walking along downtown. I don't remember where it is. You know, I can never find the shops I find downtown. Uptown, you can always remember where it is. I can never find the things I found downtown, because I look up and I can't find the street sign anywhere, and then I lose it. But there's a great place, from what I can tell, and the name of it's called Body Worship. Body Worship. And if you look, from what I can tell from the window, it's clothing for people who desperately want other people to adore their bodies.

Because, you see, they're worshipping their own bodies. A model once told me some years ago, if I don't have my looks, I've got nothing. And at least she's being honest. At least she recognizes the idol. A lot of us don't feel, don't want to admit it. It's the non-negotiable. It's the unconditioned condition. If I lose this, I lose everything. Let me give you another one. Some of you have made an idol out of certainty. You're the worst of all the worriers. Why? Everybody worries. Everybody's anxious. Why do you worry so much? Because you will not make a move unless you are sure. You will not marry unless you are sure. You will not take a risk unless you are sure. It is absolutely, absolutely necessary for you to always be sure before you make a move. It made an idol out of certainty. Listen, friends, don't you see there's only one certainty Jesus gives you, and it's the only one that you really need, that he loves you. And don't you see what you've done? Well, somebody says, yes, I know he loves me, but what if I marry the wrong person? In other words, it's nice to know that Jesus loves me. That's a nice certainty. But this certainty is more important. And that's the way idols work. You can make idols out of material possessions. You live off of these things. these things. There's a, out of self-expression, out of your own self. I was reading an article by both Tom Wolfe and Alexander Solzhenitsyn, believe it or not, about the same thing, and that is that the educated classes of modern West have turned art into a religion. And they said the cult of self-expression, they said, if you listen to the arguments of the people who say we must never censor anything. Never, never. We must never say any kind of art, any kind of expression of art is illegitimate. They said, listen, what they're saying is there is nothing higher than self-expression. And so what you're really doing is you're worshiping whatever your heart feels. If somebody says it can't be wrong if it feels so right, that means there is nothing higher than my feelings. There is nothing that can bring my feelings into judgment than your feelings are God. Your feelings are your Lord. Because that's the, what's the highest? See? Is it the work? Is it the, is it the body? Is it the romance? What is it? Is it the certainty? What's the highest thing? What's the thing that you've got to have? Oh, Christianity is nice and God is nice, but I've got to have that. Or let me put it to you another way. If you want to reveal, deal. How do you find these things? First of all, look, find your fears. Find the things that you're most afraid of and pull them up and look at them. If you pull them up out of the ground, you'll find your idols clinging to them. They're at the bottom of those fears. I'll give you a couple of examples. And at this point, I'm showing Christians in particular that you bring your gods in with you. It's not so easy to see your false gods before you become a Christian. It's not until you get in obey God and try to serve God that you realize where the rivals are. So I've had people come to me and say, I will obey God if, see, or another version of this is, I will, I have been serving God now for a couple of years. I've been a Christian and yet what good is it doing me? And I say, what do you mean? Well, I pray and I do this and I do that, but I haven't gotten this. I'm thinking of chucking the whole thing. What does that mean? That means if you say I'll obey The other end of that if, there's your God. Your real God. If you say, I'll obey if means God's condition. But this is not. The thing on the other side of the if is not condition. It's the unconditioned condition. It's the unquestioned. It's God. If God is negotiable and it is not. So that if you have God but you don't have it. You're thinking of getting rid of God.

This is God. This is your real God. This is your real religion.

Or if a person says. says, I've worked so hard and, you know, I'm not getting the things I really thought that I would get from God. Then that's your real God. You didn't need the, you didn't need, you didn't need the God of the Bible. Why did you come to him? Except as a means to an end? Every human heart is an idol factory. Every human heart wants to worship other gods. If you want to find out what where your gods are, look at what you worry the most about. If you want to find where your gods are, look at what you're most afraid of. If you want to find where your gods are, William Temple had maybe one of the best questions to ask. It says, look what you do with your solitude. Remember? William Temple said, your religion is what you do with your solitude. What is it when you don't have to think of anything else you most like thinking about?

Where do you find it easiest to spend your money? It doesn't even feel like it's hard. doesn't even feel hard? Where do you find you love to spend your creative thinking time? What do you daydream about when you get a chance, when you don't have to think about anything else? What are the conditions on your relationship with the God of the Bible?

Where do you say, boy, if the God of the Bible wouldn't do this, or if he does this, it really makes me question whether or not I should even be a Christian. We all have those We all have those Let me give you one more example When you suffer When troubles come That's the time to find out What your gods are Because when you suffer And when your troubles come Do you know what's going on? Your gods are dying It's amazing how many times People have come I've listened to them and said say, you know, here I am a Christian, but I'm suffering. I'm suffering. And I can hardly stand it. And I'm thinking about just chucking the whole Christian faith because why would God let me suffer so much? But, you know, look and see what the suffering is. Suffering always is I'm being cut off from something, something that I wanted to have I can't have. And so what God is saying to every person in suffering is, don't you realize you would not feel meaningless unless the suffering, unless the trouble was killing your God. The real God can't die, but false gods can. Suffering is situations where your gods die. The things that you have really been counting on don't come true for you. They can't come true for you. The real God can never die. Every false God can. The real God can never be taken away from you. The true God, false gods can. And so when God looks at you in the middle of your suffering, what is he saying? He's saying, don't you see why you feel the way you feel? Don't you realize why life is so meaningless to you? Because something that you were getting your meaning out of is no longer there. If you were getting your meaning from me, you wouldn't be having this problem. Don't shake your fist at me.

Don't you see? You're just mad because your idolatry is not working.

Look at yourself in the midst of your troubles most upset about and why you're losing meaning. Look at your worries. Look at your preoccupation. Look at your imagination. Look at where you spend your money. Look at what's on the other side of the ifs in your life. Okay, now what are the consequences? I've already kind of given them to you. First of all, we've seen that we do it. Secondly, we've seen the ways we do it. Thirdly, let me just show you where the gods finally do die. I've already started to get into it. It says here in verse 25, not just that we exchange the truth of God for a lie, not just that we worship and serve created things, but it also says, if you look up, it says, though they claim to be wise, they became fools and exchanged the glory of the immortal God for images made to and birds and animals and reptiles. Though they claimed to be wise, they became fools. This tells us that idolatry is not just wrong, it's foolish. Now, do you know the difference? It's not just wrong, it's foolish. It's not just sinful, it's impractical. That's what foolishness means. It means this, that the way you can tell your gods are false gods is they can't actually stand up to reality. I already got into this, but let me just give you some examples. I remember once talking some years ago to a woman who was maybe not dying. She didn't die, but we thought maybe she was. We were in a hospital many years ago. Had a great conversation. I still remember it. Because she says, you know what? You really don't know what you really believe in until you're locked into a bed in a hospital. I said, what do you mean? She says, well, you know, if you get your meaning in life out of sex appeal, I don't look very good anymore. If you get your meaning in life out of work and accomplishment, I don't have the energy. And she went on down and she was saying, if you get your meaning and get your meaning and get your meaning. She says, you know, if it wasn't God, if God wasn't the thing, if his love wasn't the only love I really needed, if his approval wasn't the only approval I really had to have, if his promises weren't the only certainty I had to have, she says, I'd be ready to kill myself. But she says, you know, I feel closer to him than ever. And I walked out never forgetting that. The way you tell whether your gods are the real gods is not on vacation, it's not when the sun is shining, it's there.

Don't you see? If you look to relational intimacy as your god, how is it going to help you when it's gone? If you look to strength and power and accomplishment as your god, are going to help you when it's gone. And what God except the true God is never gone. Let me give you another example. Relationships. Some people say, you know, I'm not a spiritual person. I'm not a religious person. But I live for my friends. I live for my family. Okay. How's your God going to help you when your God lies dead in a casket?

You're living for your family. You're living for your friends. You're living for your children.

Then how does your God help you when you're living in a casket? When you're looking at your God in a casket, what are you going to do then? Think. It says in Jeremiah chapter 2, Oh Judah, you have as many gods as you have towns. It says, when you're in trouble, you call to me. Where are your gods then? This is in Jeremiah chapter 2 verses 26 and 27. seven. The way you can tell that your gods, what your gods are made of, the way you can tell whether your gods are really the true God or not, is not in the sunshine, not during vacation, but it's at times like that. Conscience. Let me give you another example. Your conscience. I continually run into people who say, I can't forgive myself. You know why? If your God is a standard, if your God is saying, I will love myself. I will feel good about myself. I will feel my life is worthy. As long as I accomplish this, as long as I accomplish this, as long as I accomplish this. When you break the standard, which is your God, how could your God help you? If you ever get to the place, if you never get to the place where you don't feel guilty, then you have no standards at all. Everybody should sometimes feel guilty, very guilty. That's only natural. That's right. But if you get locked into a situation where you cannot

and it stays there. You can't forgive yourself. You know, it says in 1 John, John says, when our hearts condemn us, God is greater than our hearts. In other words, when your heart says, you are a wretch, you've broken the standard. You know what John says? Go over its head. Go up. You see? Go to God. What does God say? What does the Bible say? What does God say about how he feels about you? But don't you see a person I know you've forgiven me, but I can't forgive myself. What you mean is you have nowhere to go because you can't go over the head of the standard you broke because that is what your salvation was. Because that was your God. What are you going to do about conscience when you can't forgive yourself? What are you going to do when the God lies there in the casket? What are you going to do when you're lying on your bed and you have nothing you can do? You're locked up into your own spirit. What are you going to do when you face death? death. Don't you see? These false gods cannot save you. It's foolishness. It's impractical. You have to recognize that. Okay, well, lastly, what are we supposed to do about it? And I think the answer is you have to reverse what it says. It says here, it says they stopped worshiping God and exchanged the truth for a lie. Instead, what you have to do is we have to start worshiping God, but then we have to exchange the lie for the truth. And let me say something fairly brief about that. First of all, I suggest N-U-R. That's my acrostic, nur, which of course is German for only, but for the rest of you it doesn't mean much. But anyway, name N, unmask U, rejoice R. There's three things you have to do about idols if you're going to destroy their power over your Number one is name. As I've been trying to show you, look underneath. Underneath the eating disorder. Underneath the chronic, despairing loneliness. Underneath the not being able to forgive yourself. Underneath how angry you are because of the suffering you've been going through. Find the need under the need. The need under the need is worship. And the problem under the problem is things that you insist you've got to have. Unconditioned conditions. traditions, lords that have you. Name them. See them as idols. Call them idols. Recognize them as false gods. You know, there's nothing wrong with the psychological analysis as long as you finally go to theological analysis and call it what it is. Name the thing. Admit why it's so important to you. Admit the reason you're happy is because you're compromising the salvation of Jesus. You're saying, saying, Jesus is nice, but I have to have this too if I'm going to be saved.

Name it. That's N. Number two, unmask it. Now, here's what I mean by unmask. I think you've got to look at the... Generally, an idol is something that's very attractive to you. It's a prospect that's attractive to you. See it for what it is. When I say unmask it, see it for the ugly thing it is. It is a slave master. It is a bondsman. It has a whip over you. look at it and say, you have been pushing me around for years. You have your chains on me. You want to destroy me. I will never be able to satisfy you. Boy, if you don't understand that, the slavery, see the slavery of it. If you believe you're nobody until somebody loves you, the worst thing that could happen, the Bible says, would be for God to give you up to it. That's how God punishes people for idols. He lets them have them.

he gave them up to their desires read it, it's right there if the worst thing can happen to you if you believe that you're nobody till somebody loves you and you get married

the somebody will never be able to bear the freight of what you want him or her to do this person becomes the way you feel valid this is the way you feel legitimate that's what an idol does This is the way that you have meaning in life. But you've married a sinner. No matter who the person is, you've married a sinner. And that sinner will never be able to bear up underneath your incredible expectations. As a result, you're going to have a terrible and miserable marriage. And at a certain point, you need to see underneath it your problem is not the spouse. It's not the fact that your spouse isn't able to love you the way you need to be loved. Of course your spouse can't love you the way you need to be loved. It's the idol.

And you have to look at that idol and you have to say, I see what you are. You've had your hands around my throat for years. You've been jerking me around for years. You've had me on a leash for years. I won't have it anymore. That's what I mean by unmasks. You have to let it... It's got to lose its attractive power over you because you've got to see it for what it is. You name it, then you unmasks it. You identify it, and then you look at it for what it is so that it loses its ability to have power over you because you come to hate it. hopefully. Then lastly, rejoice. This is, listen, believing that Jesus is your Savior and not that. Now that's the essence, is it not? You have to be able to say, you have to be able to say, Jesus, you are the justifier of me, not this. Jesus, you are my peace, not this. Jesus, you are my master, not this. Jesus, you are my Savior, not this. but you know what? I certainly have found as a pastor that if I'm sitting down and I'm listening to somebody and I can see them just in the grip of an idol, I can't just say, well, don't you see

that you've made romance into an idol? Jesus loves you. Does a person say, oh, I never thought of that. Everything has changed. No. When God said, and we said this at the very top of the service, when God says, have no other gods before me, in Exodus chapter 20, right after that he says, for I am a jealous God. Isn't that good news? You know what it means? If he's jealous of us, what he's saying is, I love you so much, I can't bear to see you in the arms of these idols. I can't bear to see you. I want you completely for myself because I know that only in my arms are you going to be happy. Haven't you cared for somebody so much and you see that person in love with somebody who's abusing them? Hasn't that happened to you? That's how God sees you. He sees you in the arms of the idols. And you need to see that what it will take is for you to rejoice in what Jesus has done for you and let him ravish you. That's the reason why John Donne says to God in his great prayer, imprison me, for I, except you enthrall me, never shall be free and never chaste unless you ravish me. And what does it mean to be ravished with Jesus? What does it mean to rejoice in Jesus? What does it mean to let your imagination be captured by Jesus? It's a discipline. It's a discipline of being here. It's a discipline of being there in prayer daily. It's a discipline of talking with other Christians who are working through the same things. It's a tremendous discipline. tell you this. Until you realize why God says, I'm jealous. Until you realize how much he loves you. Until you feel the love. Until you can rejoice in what Jesus has done for you. And until you can do it right in the teeth of the unmasked idol, as it's happening. Just as it's happening. As you really, as the terror comes up. You have to look and turn around and say, I know why I'm so terrified. It's because I think I've got to have this. to do that. It's a long process. I'm being honest with you. And I don't know a whole lot more about it than I'm telling you because I'm still learning it myself. But that is what it means to grow in grace. Exchange the lie for a truth. Take the lie and recognize it. See what you're saying to yourself and put the truth in its place day in and day out, hour in and hour out. Look at your fears. Look at your anger. Look at your depression. Realize where they're coming from. They're not free-floating emotions. They're coming because if we worshiped him completely and utterly, we'd be totally his and totally happy. Do you understand that? Do you believe it? It's the message of the first commandment. Have no other gods before me, for I am jealous for your heart. Let's pray. Father, this subject is vast and deep, and we ask that you would help us today not to maybe think past what we're struggling with now. Help us to look at the things that we're most upset with today. Help us to look at our terrors and our fears and our anxieties today and do this analysis on them. What is it we're worshiping in a false way? What created thing are we serving? and help us to give our hearts only to you for your service and your service alone is perfect freedom. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.
