You see, if you adore other things besides God, and this is a subject we can't go into, we have to continue here, but if you adore other things beside God, it shrivels up your adoration apparatus. There's a little adoration apparatus in everybody's heart.

Romans 1 says so.

Everybody worships something. And when you direct it toward other things that are not big enough for it, it shrinks. It shrinks. Just like a stomach shrinks if you put nothing in there. So, what happens is your apparatus, your adoration apparatus, slowly shrivels up and slowly shrinks. But if you get the real thing in there, it begins to expand, begins to do what it was built to do. That's what worship is. Now, let's take a look and see what this particular passage teaches us about true worship. Let's recognize that we all do a little bit of it, and we all do it in other places, but we hardly ever do it. We do it with God and do it to God, and we have to learn to do that if we're ever going to find out what it means to be human. I tell you what it means to be human. Worship humanizes you. Worshiping anything else dehumanizes you. A fundamental principle of the Scripture. Okay, let's see what this particular passage teaches. And basically, I just want to do three things, and then I'll show you how we can use this to really help us enter into a meaningful, time-meeting God over his table. First of all, what worship is. Now, the word that's used again and again and again in this passage is the little Greek word proskuneo, which is constantly translated worship. And it's a nice, vivid, and fairly simple word to translate. It means literally to prostrate yourself before a superior. The word worship, the word proskuneo, did not just, in Greek, necessarily mean worship. It didn't mean something you gave toward God. It meant to prostrate yourself, to hit the deck, to hit the dirt in front of someone you recognize as a superior. And therefore, worship has two parts to it. First, it's recognizing the superiority of God, recognizing that you're in the presence of a superior being. And then secondly, assuming a stance appropriate to that being. If you want a little illustration of it, you could just say, if you're in a superior being, you're in a superior being. If you're sitting around and you're slouching and you're talking and you're laughing and using a lot of colloquialisms and talking maybe in a silly way, and all of a sudden into the room comes somebody who you need to impress badly, a gatekeeper in your field, someone who can open all sorts of doors for you if you impress that person. Suddenly, you straighten up. You stop slouching. You stop rocking on your feet. You're careful what you say. You're on your best behavior. What's happened is it's proskuneo. You recognize the presence. You have the presence of an honored superior person and you begin to assume a stance which is in accord with the superiority or the worthiness of that person. There's other illustrations and I've put two in here, but especially one I want to talk to you about. A woman who's had a child. She spends an awful lot of time not recognizing so much the superiority of the baby, but it spends an awful lot of time in worship in this sense. She looks at the baby a lot. Gazing at the baby. Thinks about the baby. Enjoys the baby. You know, to sit and look at something and just draw the sweetness out of it. Now, this is something a lot of people can understand because for some reason little babies draw it out of some of the toughest and nastiest of us. The ability to look and say, oh, that's adoration. You're recognizing the preciousness, the value. Not in this case the superiority. But the value of this bundle. You think about the value of it. You think about the preciousness. You think of the potential of this bundle. And finally, after all that thinking, that changes you. You're not just noticing the value of this little bundle, but it changes you. What happens is you treat the child with the utmost respect and care. It empowers you to stay up with the child. When the child is screaming and you want to go to sleep. It empowers you to be the most gentle and kind and sensitive and careful with this child more than any other living human being that you know. In other words, looking at the child, getting the sense of worth, and then assuming a stance that's consonant with that worth. Those are the two aspects of worship. That's what worship is. The English word worship comes from the word worth-ship. It used to be worth-ship. It's worth-ship. It means seeing what God is worth and then giving him what he's worth. Seeing what the baby's worth and giving the baby what he or she is worth. But cosmically, toward God, worship is seeing what God is worth and giving what he is worth. Now by the way, one quick thing. Forget how to worship. If you want to see what things you do worship, I got three tests. There's more than that. But the three tests go like this. One is. The first test is if you are ever in the presence of something and time flies. In other words, it doesn't matter how long it takes. When you're there, you don't care how long it takes. One hour, two hours, three hours, the time flies. You're not even aware of time you're enjoying it so much. That's something you worship because you're experiencing eternity. You're experiencing a certain small but significant freedom from time. You're lifted up out of time. What is it? It's something that you can think about and contemplate effortlessly and even get a sense of timelessness. Anything you enjoy like that. Number two, the things you worry about the most tend to be the things you worship. Things that you say, if something goes wrong with that because that's your God, that's a thing that really gives your life meaning, that's a thing or a person or issue on which you really, a lot of your stability and your very self-image is built. The thing you worry about the most. And then thirdly... When there's a conflict between competing demands, where do you most effortlessly and where do you most certainly put your time and your money? Where do you really put your money? Why do you think when Jesus says, where your treasure is, there is your heart also, what does he think, what do you think he means by that? What you have the money for is what you worship. What you always seem to have the money for, no matter how bad things get, is what you worship. Okay? What do you think about the most? What do you worry about the most? And what do you spend your money on the most? And that's what you worship. Listen. Jesus Christ's point here is the Father, God himself, Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit are the, the God himself is the only proper object for worship. Number two. The passage also teaches us how to worship. And the passage gives us two or three guidelines. The first guideline is something that I'm going to, I'm going to stick pretty close to the handout, so take a look at it. The first guideline is something that is, is unpopular, it's an unpopular position, and yet it's always been fundamental to what makes Christianity, Christianity. And that is that the only way that you can have real fellowship or intimacy with God, real communication with God is through Jesus Christ. Look, if you're going to be able to have communion with the cable company, you've got to have a cable hookup. It, it, you may... Just because the hook, the cable's hooked up doesn't mean you're using it. You mean you may not plug it in, you may not turn the TV on. Same thing with a phone. If you want to have communion with other people through the telephone, you've got to have a phone hookup. You may not have, you may not answer the phone, you may not make any calls, but you have to have the hookup. In the same way, your communication with God may be something that you are exercising or something you're not exercising your worship, but you can't, you're not even capable of it unless there is a structural connection between you and God. You cannot just, anybody cannot just come to God. You know, people, the funny joke about people say, well, I find God in nature. I go out into nature and when I, when I go out into the Grand Canyon, I just sense God there. When I go out and look at the ocean, I just sense God there. And of course, that's true. You're thinking about God and you're considering his greatness, but that's not communication. And the joke goes like this. If you look at a Ford car, you get... You have some idea. You have some idea about Henry Ford. I mean, you say he's a bright guy and you have, you know, you think about him, you think about him working on this car. Go to a museum and look at the car and you say, yeah, I know a lot about Henry Ford. But you're not going to have communication with Henry Ford by picking up the hood, putting your head in there and say, Henry, how are you doing? And it's not going to happen if you put your head in the Grand Canyon and say, God, it's great to see you today. You have got to have a structural connection between you and God. And that structural connection is Jesus. And he says so right here. Because look, when Jesus Christ starts talking to the woman, that fascinating passage where he says, go talk to your husband. She says, I don't have any husband. He says, right. You have five husbands and the man you're living with right now is not your husband. He wasn't trying to embarrass her. What he was trying to do is show her who he was. Because it's very, it's almost comical, isn't it? He says, go get your husband. She says, I don't have a husband. He says, you've got five husbands and the one you're living with now isn't your husband. And she looks at him. What's she say? I perceive you are a prophet.

Which is, you know, I mean, that's got to be one of the most indirect ways of saying, right, you're right. I'm, yeah, I have had a life like that. It was her way of saying yes, but at the same time saving a little bit of face by turning the conversation to the intellectual level, which people do all the time with Christianity. And so, you know, I think that's a great way to say, well, I'm going to go talk to my husband. She's, he's trying to get personal and she's trying to get, you know, abstract and academic.

So, but the point that he's trying to make is not been lost on her. She is amazed that he's a prophet and she immediately goes ahead and says, now listen, you're a prophet, but now I want to ask some questions about where we should be worshiping. Now look what the handout says here. What shocked her was they defined that there was a real prophet amongst the Jews because the Samaritans did not believe that God belonged to the Jews, that the true religion was practiced by the Jews. They taught that their mountain in Samaria was where God lived, that their temple was where he could be worshiped and that through their people alone, God was speaking. And so Jesus really disrupts her little paradigm in her mind. You know, in other words, he's putting data into her paradigm that there's no place in her paradigm for. It does not compute. She can't figure it out. And so she turns around and starts saying, well, where should you worship? Jesus says a strange thing. He says, when she says, where should we worship? He doesn't say, well, you Samaritans are wrong. You should worship in Jerusalem. That's the Jewish answer. But he also does not say, oh, it doesn't matter where you worship because God is a spirit and therefore you can worship him anywhere. He doesn't say that. Instead, he very carefully says, the hour is coming when neither in this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship the Father. Now, a lot of people have said, well, that's simple, he's saying, because God is a spirit, you can worship him any place. If that's true, why would he say the hour is coming? Why would he say that? Does he mean that God's becoming a spirit? Of course not. God's always been a spirit. Then why would he say, before it was one situation, but an hour is coming and when that hour comes, you will not worship him either here or there, but you will worship him anywhere? What's he saying? Something's happening and it has nothing to do with God being a spirit. What he's saying is this, I am the temple. In the book of John, whenever Jesus talks about the hour, what's he talking about? Again and again and again, his death. He's talking about the hour. He's talking about the death. He's the cable hookup. He's the structural connection. Because the day that Jesus died, the hour that Jesus died, the minute that Jesus died, the veil in the temple was ripped. The veil was the door between the outer court where the people were and the Holy of Holies where God dwelled. And the day that was ripped was the day that God was saying, now, you don't need the temple because Jesus is the temple. In other words, you always need a temple to worship in. But when the hour came, Jesus became the temple. And Jesus became the real temple. Friends, the earthly temple, as grand as it was, was just a shadow of the reality. The earthly temple had an altar, but now there's no altar because Jesus Christ has made the sacrifice. The earthly temple had a candelabra, a light stand, but there's no candelabra now because Jesus Christ is the light of the world. The earthly temple had a table of bread to symbolize the life of God. The fellowship with God brought life and fellowship with God brought light. Jesus is the bread of life. There's no bread left. Jesus is the temple. Jesus is the way. If you try to come to God any other way except through Jesus Christ, you will find God to be a consuming fire. You will not make it. If you come to God through Jesus Christ, only then can you worship. But, now look. Once the structural connection is there, you can worship. It doesn't mean, though you're enabled to worship, though you received him as Savior, it doesn't mean that you are worshiping any more than just because the cable hookup is put into my apartment that I can have a cable, God forbid. And I want the cable hookup. But anyway, the point is just because it's there doesn't mean you're using it. And so the second thing we learn, and it's on the back, okay, is worship has got to be in spirit and in truth. Okay?

Well, put it this way.

What this means is there's an order and an ardor to worship. Dr. Ed Clowney used to teach at Westminster Seminary, he used to say there's an order and there's an ardor to worship. And unless you're able to keep spirit and truth together, unless you're able to see they work together, you're not going to have real worship, not in your own personal life, nor in the corporate life of the church. Spirit and truth means that you cannot worship with only truth or with only spirit. Maybe the best way to explain that is to go back to one of the illustrations I try to use as often as I can. If you imagine a photographic plate and how it produces pictures, it's fairly simple. Photographic plate has got a chemical treatment on it, makes it light sensitive. When the light strikes it through the shutter, the light hits the chemicals and objects that are out there are free. Images are formed on the plate. Imagine the plate is your heart. Imagine that the Holy Spirit is the chemical treatment that makes your heart light sensitive. And imagine the light is the Word of God and the truth. Now, hasn't this ever happened to you?

For many years you read a verse that says, cast all of your cares upon him for he careth for you. Have you heard that? Cast all of your anxiety. Cast all of your worries on him because he careth for you. One day you're reading that and suddenly, though you've always heard it, today you're worried, today you're broken down with cares, you read it and suddenly the shutter opens. And the truth that you've always, always seen comes in, strikes the heart and the heart has been prepared by the Spirit of God to be light sensitive and what shows up is an image of the truth. And the image of the truth is patience.

What happens is when the truth hits the heart because it's become light sensitive, things begin to grow. What things begin to grow? The character of God. The character of Jesus Christ. His love. His patience. His nobility. His courage. His integrity. His gentleness. You start to look like him. Now what happened that day when you read that verse? You worshiped. Worship is all about the heart. always a striking of the heart made light-sensitive by the Holy Spirit, a striking of the truth on the heart made light-sensitive by the Spirit. Spirit and truth. And that's the reason why your personal communion with God is a matter of degrees. Have you ever wondered why, having read that verse for years and years, why today it just come right into you like a laser beam and burned a hole straight in your heart right through all of your worries? And suddenly you say, I'm different. And the people around you say, how are you bearing up under these concerns? The answer is you worshiped in spirit and truth. Now, why doesn't it happen all the time? And the answer is because the Spirit of God dwells inside the believer. The degree of the operation of personal fellowship and worship with God depends on whether or not you're grieving the Spirit. The Spirit's a person, friends. The Spirit is not a chemical. The Spirit is not a laser beam. The Spirit is a person. And your relationship with the Spirit depends on two things. You can grieve the Spirit of God actively or passively. Listen, because this is the basis for what we're going to do with the Lord's Supper tonight. Actively, you grieve the Spirit when you sin. When you do anything, that the Spirit hates or is grieved by. You know, it's fairly easy to grieve a friend. If a friend of yours comes along and says, now there's one thing, I really, really, we're good friends and all that. There's one thing I just cannot take. There's one thing that just upsets me and bothers me. And this is what it is. And I really ask you not to say that or talk about that or do anything like that around me. I hope you don't mind. I'll forgive you, but it'll be very difficult. And it'll be very hard. You say, fine, thanks. We're friends. And the next day you go ahead and do it. What's that going to do to the relationship? What's that going to do? You're grieving your friend. In the same way, when you sin, when you beat against any of the law of God, His character, you grieve Him actively. But you can also grieve Him passively. And the way you grieve the Spirit of God passively is you neglect and stay away from the means of fellowship with God. How do you have fellowship with God? Well, how do you get the truth? Studying the Word. And you study the Word all sorts of ways. You study it yourself. You study it with friends. You study it when you listen to the Word of God preached. Prayer. How do you pray? You pray by yourself. You pray with friends. And you pray in the body, the corporate body. Prayer is how you hear God. Pardon me. Prayer is how you speak to God. The Scripture is how you hear God. That's your communion. That's your communication. And if you're neglecting those things, then you're passively, passively grieving God. Passively grieving the Spirit. And as a result, we're constantly finding that our intimate fellowship with God has been quenched. Fellowship with God is not something people like to hear us talk about. Recently, there was an article in the New York Times, and it was an interesting editorial. It had nothing to do, really, with religion. Actually, what it was doing was it was talking about conservative judges in the Supreme Court. And it was talking about this editorial, this editor who has ever wrote the editorial, was very unhappy with, with conservative judges. Because conservative judges were always trying to find the original intent of the framers of the Constitution. And because they didn't like that, he said, well, how do they know what the original intent of the constitutional authors are? And then, a little aside, but so revealing, it says, these conservative judges remind me of the arrogance of evangelical Christians. And then, he said this, you know, they say, we know God, you don't. Now, look, arrogance, can never be countenanced. But you see, what you have there is a real resentment and a disbelief. Lots and lots of religious people say, I honor God, I believe in God. Lots of churchgoers say, I honor God, I obey God, I believe in God. But when you come to people who say, I know God, I have intimate personal contact with Him, they get very, very upset. If you go into a church and you start to ask people questions that have to do with God, and you start to ask questions that have to do with personal communion with God, if you say, what's God been teaching you lately? If you say, how has your prayer and your experience of God's love and grace been going lately? They'll look at you, either extremely, extremely offended that you'd ask a question that revealed the lack of relationship that they have, or else they'll look at you, kind of dumbfounded, not knowing what you're talking about, as Martin Luther says, staring at you like a cow stares at a new gate. You know? What do you mean? What are you talking about? How could that be? What do you mean, knowing Him? This is the basis of worship. The basis of worship is, if you're not grieving the Spirit, and you're not actively or passively, you actually hear from Him. You sense His truth operating in you. His truth comes in, it shines into you, it teaches you, it shows you. When we talk about worship and communion with God, we're talking about a lot of things. I generally tend to break it into three categories. One is, we have communion with Him in terms of love. We express love to Him, but we sense it. He sheds His love abroad in our hearts. He assures us, I am yours, and you are mine. Do you know what that's like? Do you have days in which you're having communion with His love? When you feel banished by Him, and then all of a sudden, in comes an assurance, you are mine, I love you. Or as Sally Field says, you like me, you really like me. You know, on days that you have communion with Him, you look up and, incredible, this is the holy God of Israel, and you look up and you say, you like me. You really like me. That's communion with love. Sometimes we share communion in wisdom. That means He shares with us His purposes. He teaches us about how He has purposes in suffering. He teaches us about how we're supposed to walk, and through His word, He teaches us how we should be relating to people and what it means to walk with integrity. He teaches us to know, understand how to deal with temptation, how to deal with discouragement. He makes us wise. And He also, we also have communion with Him about His business. That is, He shows us how He wants us to serve Him. And you see, on days of intimate communion, you find yourself wrestling in prayer for the kingdom of God, or you find yourself being able to trust Him in the middle of trials, or you sense His love in your heart. And it radically changes your self-image, gives you a buoyant self-image. It makes you feel like, it makes you patient and courageous. It also gives you a sense of purpose. That happens through communion with God. That's happening constantly if you're not grieving the Spirit. If you're not experiencing that communion, which is the basis for all other kinds of worship, you've got to look at yourself and saying, God seeks worshipers. Verse 23. The Lord seeks worshipers. He wants you to be worshiping Him. He can't wait to pour His love out on you. He can't wait to teach you His wisdom. He can't wait to get you involved in His business. And if that is His desire, I must be putting up all kinds of roadblocks.

And therefore, we have to say, am I worshiping in spirit and truth? Am I studying the Word? Am I getting rid of all the obstacles that grieve the Spirit? Am I actively grieving Him? Am I passively grieving Him? And so on.

And lastly, look at letter C, and then we're going to be done. Letter C in the middle of the back page. Basically, there's two phases to worship. I personally always try in my own personal devotional life to abide by these two. And if you watch carefully, you will see that very often we do the same thing through our worship service. There's basically two phases to worship. Seeing what God is worth, and then giving Him what He's worth. That's the reason why you say, ascribe to the Lord, that's seeing what He's worth. The glory due His name, that's giving Him what He's worth. So worship's an activity. And it means usually this. There's an early part, the first part of worship, is you meditate on the truth until it comes home. Romans 7 says, Paul says, for years He always saw the rule, thou shalt not covet. But one day, he says, the commandment came. Do you know what that means? For years and years He always saw the word, thou shalt not covet, but one day it came home. And He was really saying, and he's reading it and he says, oh my word, I see what this means. It means that I should always love God enough to be content in any situation. I shouldn't be coveting other people's talents. I shouldn't be coveting other people's lives. I shouldn't be coveting other people's breaks. I shouldn't be coveting other people's families and loves. I shouldn't be coveting, oh my gosh. You see here, suddenly Paul said, it came home. He says, it slew me. What it meant was, after reading the word, and reading the word one day, a particular verse came home, and showed him who he was, and laid him low.

Job says, I heard of you with my ears, but now I see you with my eyes, and I repent in dust and ashes. And Job didn't see a thing. The Bible tells us that God, there was a whirlwind, and God spoke out of the whirlwind, but Job didn't see anything with his physical eyes. So what does he mean at the end? He says, I heard of you with my ears, but now I see you with my eyes. It means I'd always known this truth, but one day, now the truth has pierced me. So the truth begins to shine. Friends, this can happen macro or micro. You can walk into any worship service and find that God is saying something to you never thought of, and it just lays you out, and you make a decision that changes the course of your life. Or, you can simply be looking at a verse in the bulletin, you know, like words of encouragement, where we have a scripture passage read, and it leaps out, and it just says, yes, yes, you hear a voice say, that's you, I love you like that. And that just, that comforts you, and you say, ah, that calms you down. That's worship too. It can be macro, it can be micro. But you should always be saying, oh Lord, I want you to be transfigured in my sight. I want to hear your word, not with my ears, but I want to see you with the eyes of my heart. That's the first part of worship. The second part of worship is, you feel moved to give. Moved to give. Anybody who is in the presence of God, even if you don't believe in him, feels moved to give. First, see, a non-believer who's in the presence of God will definitely sense God's there. He just won't like it. He'll feel the need, almost, to give something to God, but he won't like it. Benjamin Franklin was a non-believer, a non-Christian. He told everybody, I am not a Christian. I believe in a general God, but I don't believe that Christ was God. I'm not a Christian. One of the things that always bothered him was that whenever the great evangelist, George Whitefield, would come to Philadelphia and preach, Benjamin Franklin would go and listen to him because he was such a good preacher. And the thing that bothered him was that whenever Whitefield preached, he sensed the presence of God and he didn't like it. And he found that he would give too much money at the end of the service. See, at the end of the service, George Whitefield would always preach the gospel in a very powerful way, and Whitefield had started an orphanage in Georgia. And it was his job to raise money to keep that orphanage going. It was a terrible burden on him all of his life. Wherever he preached, outdoors, indoors, anywhere, he took up offerings and it all went to the orphans. The trouble was that Franklin, every time he went to preach, he felt the presence of God on him and he found that he would just give much more than he really wanted to. You know, he would just go and he'd say, now look, I'm not going to give that much, and he'd empty his pockets every time. So one day, he says, I'm going to go hear Whitefield preach, but I am not going to take any money. I am going to be prepared. And he went, and as Whitefield was preaching, the power of God fell on the congregation, everyone sensed it, everyone saw him in a sense. When the offering plate came around, Franklin turned around and borrowed money from everybody around him, threw it on the plate.

When you really worship God, you feel the need to give. One thing you'll do is you'll give him your sins. When God becomes real to you, things that look so precious to you, some of the things that you're doing, that you know are wrong, you're doing them because you say, it's all I've got. I've got to have this. You don't understand. You don't understand. If you're worshiping, things that look so doggone great and important begin to look tawdry in the light of the glory of his face. You give him your sins. You do give him your money, by the way, but you also give him your heart. You give him your praise. You give him your very self. When Isaiah saw God high and lifted up, and his train filled the temple, it's the first thing that Isaiah did when he finally saw God. When God said, I've got a job for somebody, and here's the job description. I want you to go and preach to people who will never listen to you all of your life. And immediately Isaiah said, I volunteer. Because you see, he was worshiping. He says, of course I'll give it to you. Worship is saying, oh Lord, reveal yourself to me. Thinking and meditating and chewing on what the word says. Seeing how it connects to you. Constantly saying, what is this telling me about you, oh Lord? Open my eyes to see you. And when it begins to get sweet, and as you begin to adore, and as you begin to see him for what he is, then turn around and give him what he's worth. And that's worship.

Amen.