2 Kings 5, 13-19, and Luke 19, 5-10.

Naaman's servants went to him and said, My father, if the prophet had told you to do some great thing, would you not have done it? How much more than when he tells you, wash and be cleansed? So he went down and dipped himself in the Jordan seven times, as the man of God had told him. And his flesh was restored, and became clean like that of a young boy. Naaman and all his attendants went back to the man of God. He stood before him and said, Now I know that there is no God in all the world except in Israel. Please accept now a gift from your servant. The prophet answered, As surely as the Lord lives whom I serve, I will not accept a thing. And even though Naaman urged him, he refused. If you will not, said Naaman, please let me, your servant, be given as much earth as a pair of mules can carry, will never again make burnt offerings and sacrifices to any other god but the Lord. But may the Lord forgive your servant for this one thing. When my master enters the temple of Rimon to bow down, and he is leaning on my arm, and I bow there also. When I bow down in the temple of Rimon, may the Lord forgive your servant for this. Go in peace, Elisha said. When Jesus reached the spot, he looked up and said to him, Zacchaeus, come down immediately. I must stay at your house today. So he came down at once and welcomed him gladly. All the people saw this and began to mutter, He has gone to be the guest of a sinner. But Zacchaeus stood up and said to the Lord, Look, Lord, here and now I give half of my possessions to the poor, and if I have cheated anybody out of anything, I will pay back four times the amount. Jesus said to him, Today salvation has come to this house, because this man too is a son of Abraham. For the Son of Man came to seek and to save what was lost. The word of the Lord.

Each week we've been looking at what do we need to do in order, or what do we need to be in order to be the kind of neighbors that New Yorkers need at a time like this. and we've been looking at pretty cosmic subjects like evil and suffering and fear and anger. Now tonight we're going to look at a more mundane, less cosmic, but very, very important subject and that has to do with money. And of course whenever ministers talk about money, there's a little suspicion right away because ministers are the heads of charitable organizations and we need benevolent giving and so on. you're just going to have to trust me. Because I don't believe that we can possibly be the neighbors New Yorkers need unless we look at how we relate to our money and our possessions. These two stories are pretty well known. We're going to look at, we come in, the text that Michelle just read to you, they come in the middle, the middle of the stories. And they're about two guys that seem very different. Naaman was a very admirable guy. minister of Syria. You know that little weird thing about going into the temple of Rimen and being on my master's arm? The reason he would go in with the king to the temple of Rimen was because he was the prime minister. He was the guy that sat right next to the king. He was a war hero. He was tremendously admirable, but he was a leper. He got leprosy, and so he goes to Israel to try to seek his healing. On the other hand, Zacchaeus, from what we can tell, is almost the exact opposite of Naaman. Naaman must have been a man of valor, a big strapping guy, you know, a warrior. Zacchaeus, we know, was small. He was short. That's the reason why Jesus in verse 5 is looking up to him because he's up in a tree because he can't see over the crowd. Naaman was a hero, you know, a national hero. Zacchaeus was a tax collector, and in that situation, tax collector meant he was a

collaborator with an occupying colonial power, Rome, and he was basically an extortioner and a shakedown artist. And he's not after some quest for Jesus. He just got up in a tree. He just wants to see what he's looking like. He's just curious. So these guys seem to be utterly different except in one way, actually in two ways. They both have money. They both got money. And when they meet God, their relationship to their money and their career totally changes. And if we look at them, we're going to understand something about how grace changes. God's grace changes your attitude toward money. Three things. Let's look and see what this text tells us about the power of money, the power of grace, and the wonderful thing that happens when grace and money get together. The negative power of money, the positive power of grace, and the great thing that happens when grace and money get together. First of all, we learn from these texts something about the delusional power of money. You see, there's an irony in both of these texts, and that is wealth is supposed to get you inside, right? Wealth is supposed to get you in. Wealth gets you into the Lincoln bedroom. room. Because wealth gets you to the top of the political party, whatever it is. By the way, it doesn't matter whether the political party, you know, in any particular country champions the cause of the poor and the working class versus the wealthy and the corporations. It doesn't really matter what the positions are. The people who run the party are wealthy people. You go to the inside. How do you get into Harvard, Yale, or Princeton? Huh? Class? great college board scores, great, or if you have the same name as what's on the buildings, you know, if your family, you know, gave the money for that building, you're going to be in. Wealth gets you inside. But in these cases, these two guys are outsiders. In the case of Naaman, he's a leper, and a leper was so hideous and was so contagious that as the leprosy got worse and worse, more and more was pushed out. People couldn't have anything to do with him. And Zacchaeus, even though he's not a physical leper, you see the attitude of the crowd to him in verse 7? A sinner. He's a spiritual leper. And so there's an irony going on, and the narrators are trying to get across the fact that even though everybody believes that wealth will get you in, it really doesn't. A perfect example of this is Andrew Carnegie. front page of your bulletin. When he was 33 years old, he wrote a personal mission statement. New Year's Eve, thought about his life, and this is what he said. He says, I'm going to arrange my life so that two years from now, I can always have an annual income of $50,000. Beyond this, never earn. Make no effort to increase fortune, but spend the surplus each year and purposes. Why? And then he says, man must have an idol. The amassing of wealth is one of the worst species of idolatry. And look at the last sentence. To continue much longer, overwhelmed by business cares and with most of my thoughts wholly upon the way to make more money in the shortest time, this must degrade me beyond hope of permanent recovery. Now, in this remarkable document. Here's what we see. First of all, one thing I didn't show you, I didn't put it in, I probably should have, is that this document is filled with misspellings. Here's a guy that was about to become one of the richest men in the world, and he did not know how to spell idolatry, by the way. There's quite a few misspellings. And one of the things I didn't put in, because I was trying to fit it on the page, kind of dumb, is he says, I've got to stop amassing wealth. I'm going to do two things. I'm going to help the poor, and I'm going to study. I'm going to read. I'm going to become a literate man. Now, here's what's so interesting. Andrew Carnegie thought wealth would get him in. Get him in. But he realized that culturally he was still a shallow person. And he realized that morally he was becoming something he didn't like. And he recognized that money was a spiritual power in his life. It was not simply a medium of exchange. change. He realized he was trying. He realized that it was a power because money was more than just money to him. It was a way for him to get in. It was a way for him to get security. It was a way to him to get approval. It was a way for him to get power. And it wasn't working. He didn't feel like an insider. He felt like an outsider. And he decided to declare war on this spiritual power that was... When he says at the very end, his last sentence is scary. He says, I can tell it's doing something to my humanity. I hate what it's making me. Money has a power because it promises to give you what it can't, and that is to heal this general deep-down sense that somehow I'm an outsider. C.S. Lewis talks about this very hard to articulate spiritual sense in his famous sermon, He says this, I don't believe that the economic motive or the erotic motive can account for most things that happen in the world. What does is a lust, a longing to be inside, to be on the inner ring. It takes many forms. People who believe themselves to be free from the snobbery or the ambition to be on the inside of what is called, quote-unquote, society, may be devoured by the desire to be on the inner ring in some other form. Maybe they don't want large lighted rooms or champagne. They want instead that sacred little studio, the delicious knowledge that just we four or five people, we're the only ones who really know.

My purpose in this essay is to convince you that this desire is one of the great permanent mainsprings of human action that creates the world as we know it, the pell-mell of struggle, of competition, and confusion. And unless you take measures to prevent it, it's going to dominate your life as well. Until you conquer the fear of being an outsider, an outsider you will remain. The power of money is it promises to get you in. all have a sense that we're not in. We feel like outsiders. And we desperately want to get into power, into approval, into comfort, into control. And money says it's going to get you there, and it can't. It can't give you real influence. It can't give you real love. It can't get you the real thing that you're missing somehow. And that's the first thing that these narratives tell us. In spite of the fact that they're wealthy, they're outside. They're lepers in different ways. is. Now, secondly, besides the fact that these passages tell us about the delusional power of money, the second thing they tell us about is about the transforming power of grace. And boy, oh boy, let's take a look at how these two guys meet God and how in both cases, the way they meet God, the way salvation flows is exactly the opposite of the way that they learned money and status and power works in the world. So first of all, look at Naaman. Now we take, let's pick up the stories because the texts that we have here start in the middle of the stories. First we see Naaman's servants going after him. He's clearly running away from what Elisha the prophet said. And Naaman's servants went to him and said, my father, if the prophet had told you to do some great thing, wouldn't you have done it? How much more then when he tells you, wash and be cleansed? So he went down and dipped himself in the Jordan River. Now here, what's going on here? Here's what's going on. Naaman came to Israel because he heard about this great God, and he went to the prophet, the man of God, Elisha. And he goes there to say, I want my healing. And he intends to get his healing, he intends to get his salvation from this terrible fate from God the same way he got his status and his money. Look it. You can see what the servants refer to. He expected he had to do some great thing. He came with his gold, he came with his references to prove that he was a moral man, and he was ready to do a great thing. And he expected Elisha to come out and say, you want God's power in your life? Bring me the broomstick of the wicked witch of the West. Bring me a Silmaril from the crown of Morgoth, the dark enemy of the world.

You say, what's that one? And you say, ah, you haven't read your prequel to Lord of the Rings. That's the prequel. You need to get the prequel, all right? In other words, he expects Elisha to come out and say, just do some great things because that's how I got my other things. Everything else that's good in my life, everything else. My status, my position, the love I have of the people, my money, everything else was competition, achievement, doing better than anybody else. Now I'm ready to do some great thing. And what does Elisha come out and say? Go down to the Jordan River and dip in seven times and you'll be healed. And he's furious. He runs away in a rage. That's the reason why the servants are saying, Master, Master, do it. Why would he be mad? You know why he'd be mad? Because any idiot can wash.

When Elisha comes out and says, Just go dip in the Jordan River seven times. He is confronting Naaman and demanding of Naaman a complete worldview revolution. Because Naaman is saying, what kind of God is this whose salvation can be had no matter who the heck you are? He says, if you just go down and wash, do you know what that means? Anybody can do that. A priest or a prostitute. There's no difference. An insider or an outsider, there's no difference. You're treating me the same way you would treat a coward, and I'm brave. You're treating me the same way you would treat an immoral person, and I'm moral. moral. You're treating me the same way you would treat a failure, and I'm a success. What kind of God is this that gets your power in your life, and it makes no difference what you've done up to now? No difference who you are. No difference about your ability. No difference. He's insulted because he's saying, this is the craziest God I've ever heard of. There's no requirement for this guy's salvation. No requirement for this God's salvation.

but the servants get it. The servants are brilliant. Look carefully. They say, Pastor, my father, if the prophet had told you to do some great thing, you would have done it. How much more then should you do this? Here's what they get. Listen. This is the gospel. The requirement of the gospel is to see that you can't fulfill the requirements. It's a non-requirement. Let me go a little further.

The great thing is to see that you can't do a great thing. The servants are saying, Master, are you ready to do a great thing? This is the great thing. This is the thing that people won't do. Or put it one more way. There is a difference. There is a difference between people who are saved and who are not. The difference is in people who see there's no difference. Do you realize what that takes? What was keeping Naaman from God was his pride.

He's not going to be able to cure his outer leprosy until he cures his inner leprosy, and the inner leprosy is his pride. The thing he will not admit, but eventually he's going to have to, is he's going to have to admit that there really is no difference. Before God, it doesn't matter what your performance is. You know why? Why? Because the thing that really blocks God in your life is your self-centeredness, is your desire to be your own Savior. And what Naaman's being confronted with, what we all are confronted with, this is the whole point of the epistle of Romans, there is no difference. Paul shouts that out, Jew or Greek, see, pagan or religious person, There is no difference. Why? Because self-salvation, self-centeredness blocks God inside of a moral life or in an un-moral life. You see, a non-religious person says, I want to live my life my own way. That's obviously a person who's trying to be their own Savior. But a religious person who says, if I have done great things, then God owes me a good life. I have done great things and people owe me respect. You're being your own Savior as well. There's no difference. That's the leprosy that is blocking him. And God says you're gonna have to completely turn upside down your understanding of how things work. Salvation works totally different than money, at least in the world. Totally different. The requirement is to see that you can't meet the requirements. The great thing is to see that you can't do a great thing. The difference between a saved person and an unsaved person is to see that there's no difference.

It's not the good in and the bad out. It's the humble in and the proud out. It's not the better people are in, but finally the people who are willing to admit they're not better. and when he finally gets, when he gets in that water, don't you see what must have happened? When he gets into that water, he'd already gone through a conversion experience. And what happens when he comes out, what is he? His skin is like a little boy's. What does that mean? He's been born again. See, what's happened on the outside is just a picture of what happened on the inside. Total reversal of everything he'd ever known or everything he'd ever learned. But then now look at Zacchaeus and look at how the transforming power of grace works in Zacchaeus' life. And what we have between these two guys is a very interesting little compendium of why people don't become Christians. What was keeping Naaman from God? His pride. What was keeping Zacchaeus from God? Something else.

Commentators always point out something interesting, and that is it took two things to get Zacchaeus in that tree. because he couldn't see. Why did he have to get up? Why couldn't he see? Well, you say because he was short. No, there's two reasons. A short person can come up to the crowd and say, excuse me, I'd like to get through. I'd like to stand on the front so I can see Jesus. They wouldn't let him. It wasn't just that he was short. The crowd hated him. And they hated him because we're good people. You're a sinner. See, that's what they say in verse 7. Here we have in the story of Naaman and Zacchaeus, the two reasons in this country, actually there's two reasons for centuries that people have trouble with Christianity. One is their own pride. They say, I don't need to be saved by grace. I've done many great things. God owes me. But the other reason people don't become Christians is because of the self-righteous, exclusionary, judgmental attitude of professing believers, people who abuse people with the word sinner. And what does Jesus do in response? He walks or comes around the corner, and there's a whole crowd, a whole bunch of religious insiders, a whole bunch of good people, obviously because they use the word sinner the way they do, and he goes immediately for the one guy who's not even calling for him. He's not even… You talk about grace. Zacchaeus is not saying, son of David, have mercy on me like the blind man. He's just up there kind of curious. And Jesus says, I want to bring you into my life. I want to come into your life. I want you to come into my life. He chooses the outsider. And if you've read the Gospel of Luke, you will see that over and over again, this is what happens. Put a woman in the street next to Simon, the religious leader, Luke 7. Put a demoniac, respectable townspeople, Put a political collaborator turncoat with religious people. Put a Samaritan and a Levite. Put a Pharisee and a Republican. My goodness, even put Martha and Mary. Put a sexual outsider and an insider together. Put a moral outsider and insider together. Put a racial outsider and insider together. Put a religious outsider and insider together. In every case, Jesus is attracted to the outsider, and the outsider is attracted to Jesus first. over and over and over and over again. I don't know how many times Luke's got to do this to you. Why? Because it's people on the outside who are more likely to have that revolution. It was very hard for Naaman to see that salvation works in a completely opposite way that everything else in the world works. But outsiders are more likely to see. And so Jesus attracts them, and they are attracted to him. Listen, before going on, Quickly, one of the very best ways to understand whether you're a nice moral religious person trying to do great things and getting God to do things for you, or whether you understand the gospel, whether you've really been transformed on the inside, whether you've really crossed the line into a kind of regenerated, converted life. How do you know who you are? One of the ways you can tell is by how you use the word sinner. See, religious people always use the word sinner like world into two parts. Them, bad people. Moi, good people. They do it that way. Why? Well, because I have done great things, great moral things, great cultural things. I've done great things. God owes me, and the world owes me respect. But how does Jesus use the word sinner? Look at him talking to his disciples in Luke 11, where he's just talking about,

prayer. And at one point he says, now look, if you who are evil give your children good things when they ask for you, how much more will my heavenly Father give good things to you when you ask? You who are evil? Who's he talking to? The apostles, the twelve apostles, the foundation, the pillars, the leaders of the early, of the church. And he's not even talking about, them. It's an offhanded comment. It's a given. It's part of the way we understand. He says, no, you guys know you're evil. You know, as we all know, you're evil. What?

Tim Keller, God says, tonight I want you to preach, and I don't want you to think about how you look. I don't want you to try to impress people. I don't want you to care about how you do. care about their approval. I want you to care about exhibiting me in my glory, and I want you to care about their hearts and what they need. I don't want you to think about anything else.

I'm trying, but I'm evil.

I'm trying, but you see, I have the same self-centeredness in my heart that under other circumstances could make me into a murderer. murderer. It's the same thing. It's the self-salvation strategy. Even after you become a Christian, it stays there and it gives you problems. Jesus uses the word sinner and evil in a very different way. He uses it to sweeten your life so that you don't look at anybody else as if they're better, as if you're better than they are. He'll use it in a completely different way. Watch how you use the word sinner. It's one of the main, an abuse of people with the word is one of the main reasons why people are kept away. Keeps your people from seeing Jesus. Now lastly, look at this grace. So upside down, so free. And when it comes into contact with their money and their career, absolutely changes everything. Naaman and Zacchaeus don't just become a little more charitable. Let me show you that with Naaman shows how the gospel of grace utterly changes the way you think of your career, and Zacchaeus shows how the gospel of grace utterly changes the way you think of your money. First of all, Naaman. Now, this is fascinating. Naaman comes back, okay? He's born again, figured out the gospel, and he comes back and he says,

I want to give you a gift. Well, now, don't forget, Elisha, this whole incident has been trying to teach him the freeness of grace. So, Elisha doesn't just say, no, thank you. He says, says, no, no. He says, as the Lord lives, whom I serve, I will not accept a thing. What he's saying is, I don't want to screw you up at this point. I don't want you, you know, you're a young baby believer here, and I just don't want you to miss the point. This is free, free. There's nothing you could do. I'm not going to take a gift. So, I don't want to mess up the point at this point. I'm saying we're almost to the end here. He says, I don't want to screw it up. So, what does Naaman do? Look it. Naaman, in verse 17, says, if you will not do that,

then let me do this. So what he's about to propose is trying to get another way to have the gospel of grace come into his life. And let me show you how it changes his attitude toward his job. Now he asks Elisha, he comes and he says, here's a strategy. And Elisha says, go in peace, which means that's a good idea. But he suggests something that on the surface looks pretty weird, but it's not as weird as you may think.

The first thing he says is, I'm going back to my old job. I'm going back to being the prime minister. I'm going back to doing my job, which is to, you know, be the prime minister and have my master lean on my arm and go into the temple room. I'm going back to my job. Now, that's very important. Why doesn't he say, Elisha, I've seen the light. I'm a believer now. I don't want to go back with all those unbelievers. I don't want to go back with all those pagans. They're going to contaminate me. At the water cooler, they tell these dirty jokes.

I just can't stand it. I want to be here with you good people. I don't want to go back to my secular job. I want to do something for the Lord. You see, the reason he's not going to do that is because the whole point is, there's no difference. I mean, he's applying the gospel immediately by saying, what this means is there's no polluted, profane, nasty, out there, and a nice, secure, sacred, grid wonderful in here. No. You who are evil, no, no. So the first thing, he's not trying to stay away from the world. He's going back to his job. But look, you know what Rimen was? It wasn't just the deity of Syria. It was Syria deified. And what he's saying is simply this. He says, I'm going to find a way to witness when I go in to the temple of Rimen doing my job, because that's what the I'm going to have a bunch of people behind me with a wheelbarrow of dirt from Israel. They're going to put it down. I'm going to kneel down so that everybody knows that I'm not praying to women. I'm praying to true God.

You know what he's doing? He's saying, I'm going to go back into my job. I'm going to serve my country, but I'm not going to worship my country. I'm going to go back into making money, but I'm not going to serve money. money. I'm going to go back into my music and my art, but it's no longer the thing that defines me. It's no longer the thing that is my hope and my meaning. It's no longer the thing that I think is going to get me into security and to significance and to power and approval. I don't need them. I don't need the success. I'm going to try to get it. I don't need the money. I'm going to try to get. I'm going to go back. But the idolatry has been taken away. He's bringing every part of his life, every dimension of his life into consistency with who God is and what he's done to him. But now take a look at Zacchaeus. Zacchaeus shows us how grace very specifically changed your attitude toward your money itself. Number one, look at his action. He says, I'm going to give 50% away a year. But doesn't the Hebrew scripture say 10% is a requirement? Yes. He's going way past the requirement. Secondly, he offers restitution. Anybody that I've cheated and defrauded, I'll pay back. But if you go back into Leviticus and Numbers, you will see that the requirement was if you defrauded somebody, you have to pay back the money plus 20%. You have to pay back 120%. He offers 400%. In other words, he's going way past the requirements, way past requirements in his generosity. Secondly, we don't just see a change in his action, but his attitude. First of all, he says, first of all, it's spontaneous. He gets up and he says to the Lord, he starts talking about his money, and Jesus hasn't asked him. It's spontaneous. Secondly, it's joyful. I've been meditating for a long time now on how Zacchaeus talks to Jesus about his money. He says, look, Lord. Isn't that a weird way to start talking to Jesus? Look, Lord.

Is he trying to get his attention? No, no, no. This comes shockingly close to the attitude of a kid when he says, look, mommy, look, daddy, I've done something that I think will please you. I've done something that I think is great. great. It's amazing. There's a joyfulness. His attitude toward his money is, I've got a great idea, and I think this will give you pleasure. And another thing that's interesting is he offers to give away 50%. Now, what's weird is that shows his motivations are utterly positive, and here's why. He is not guilty about being rich. He is not a self-hating rich person. I'll tell you why. If he was trying to give his money away because he was guilty about being rich, he would have given away 90% or 95% or 100%. He gives away 50%, and we all know that if you're wealthy and you give away 50%, you're still well off. He is completely positive in his motivations. He's not negative. He's not guilty. He's not afraid of being well off. Well, somebody says, here's what I don't get. It wasn't last in Luke 18, doesn't Jesus tell a rich young ruler to give away all of it to the poor? Why does he accept 50% here? And why does the Bible say 10%? What is it? Is it 10? Is it 50? Is it 100? I'm so confused. And here's the point. You're looking for rules, and Jesus is inviting you in on an adventure. You're looking for principles, and he's calling you on to a pilgrimage. What I learned from the rich young ruler and Zacchaeus and all that, the reason for all the different proportions, you, I, we have a tendency to say, what do I have to do? Just give me the requirements. And Zacchaeus shows that what happens in your heart when you get the freedom from the money through an experience of grace, you say, I can't wait to find some way to push past the requirement to give and to give and to give and to heal people and to change the communities around me. I'm going to go as far as I possibly can. But I'm going to follow Jesus. And who knows what Jesus is going to do. Jesus is saying, follow me. Maybe you'll give away a lot. Maybe you won't be well-to-do anymore. Maybe you'll stay rich. Maybe it'll be 50%. Maybe it'll be 20%. Maybe it'll be 10%. Maybe who knows what it'll be. Follow me. I'm calling you into an adventure. And you're sitting around saying, well, now how much does it have to be?

I've got that freedom. If you think it's ridiculous to even talk about giving away 10, 20, 50 percent of your income every year, you haven't understood the gospel. You're thinking like a religious person. You're saying, what great thing do I have to do in this realm of money so that God will bless me? But if anybody out there is saying, boy, Tim's really making me feel guilty, really guilty, You're not getting the gospel either. Do what Zacchaeus did. Get up in a tree, do anything you can to get a look at Jesus, and then you'll be shocked. He was just curious. He just wanted to see Jesus, and he got this beautiful God of grace. Look at Jesus, and what will you see? You will see Jesus Christ, though he was rich, becoming poor for your sake. you will see the ultimate insider, Jesus Christ who is in heaven about as inside as you can get saying my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me becoming the outsider why? so that you can know God loves you if the father emptied his pocket of the greatest treasure he had his son then you will know that he treasures you and when he treasures you finally you're on the real inner ring

The inner ring we lost in the Garden of Eden when God would walk with us every night in the cool of the garden, telling us secrets. That's the inner ring. And if you know you're in on that, because look at his love, look what he did for you. That heals you. Andrew Carnegie did not do his personal mission statement. We all know that. He did not do. That memorandum, I don't know why he didn't, I don't even know why we have it. Why in the world that man didn't get rid of that thing. What an embarrassment. He said, make no more money. Earn no more wealth. He never did. Why? Willpower won't do it.

Saying, resolve, be more generous next week, next year, won't do it. Absolutely not. You got to get up in a tree. You got to see Jesus. You'll be surprised. You got to see what he did for you. And then you push, and you push, and you push. And here's one last thing. When people say, well, I don't know how much, you've got me very confused. How much money should I be giving away? Do what both Naaman and Zacchaeus do. Look at how creative it is. Look at how non-mechanical it is. Both of them come up with a plan. Notice that? They come up with a plan. Naaman comes up and says, Okay, Elisha, I got an idea. And that whole thing is saying, That is pretty creative, don't you think? Give me some dirt. That'll be a testimony. That'll be a witness. I mean, he's got this creative plan. says to Elisha, well, now, is that a sin? Will God forgive me? Will that be all right? And what does Elisha say? Okay. Zacchaeus goes to Jesus and says, I've got a strategy. I'm going to do 50% and 400% restitution. And Jesus says, okay. Don't you see? You can't do this by yourself. You want to say, prove to me that the Bible says I have to give away 10% of my income. Well, I could. good. Don't dare me. And then I can just do it. I'll try to get there. I'm having trouble right now. You know what the rents are in New York City, but I'm going to get there eventually. No, no, no, no, no. The kind of strategic pushing beyond 10% that the gospel of grace demands for you to do is not something you're going to be able to do by yourself. You're going to have to get with some friends. You're going to have to let them know how much you spend on yourself. You're

You're going to have to say, I'd love to be able to give 30%. How do we do that? Oh, you don't want to do that, huh? That's too private, huh? Has the gospel of grace humbled you or not? I guess not enough. You have to work out your giving with some other friends in a community. You've got to be creative. You're being called into a pilgrimage, not given a principle. Got it? Get up in a tree. What I mean is look at him. and then eventually you'll be able to say, oh Lord, I want to give you so much joy and I want to begin with my money. I got an idea. What do you think? Let's pray. Our Father, we ask that you would show us how to honor the one who gave up all of his wealth so that we could have the real wealth that we need. Help us now as we celebrate your supper to have the gospel become real to us in a way that it will enable us to have this freedom that Andrew Carnegie never found evidently so that we too could know the joy of those who say, look Lord, look at what we can do together in the world through my money transformed now by your grace. It's in Jesus' name we ask it. Amen.
