I know that it's boring to sit in a group in a room and listen to somebody talk through a tape recorder, but it's even more boring to actually sit in a room all by yourself and talk into a tape recorder. But let's bear with each other on this. I'm very, very excited about the biblical teaching on giving that I've been surveying for the last two or three weeks. I'm looking at every part of what the Bible says about our attitudes toward our money and our possessions, and I really wanted to share with you my findings. Now, what I want to do is give you three talks, and this is the first of three talks called Giving Three Biblical Perspectives. One of the ways you can organize everything the Bible tells us about the world is under the terms creation, fall, and redemption. The Bible tells us when you look at anything in the world, you know three things about it. You have to keep in mind, or you don't really understand it. It's created. First thing is anything you see in the world is created by God. Secondly, it's biblical. It's been distorted, affected by sin. And thirdly, everything in the world is being redeemed, transformed by the grace of Jesus Christ. And if you forget any one of those three things, you don't really understand the reality of what you're looking at. Now, we're going to look in these three talks at just what the Bible says about your possessions, about your money, about your substance. And for each talk, we're going to take one of the lenses. We're going to say, what does it mean to understand that our money and our substance, is the result of God's creation, and then fall, and sin, and grace? And under each of these headings, we're going to notice that the lens that we're looking at money through,

gives us a theological truth, a motivational dynamic, and a practical guideline for our giving. A theological, motivational, and practical understanding of our giving. Now, we have to start right away here. The first of the three lenses is creation. And that means, the question, what does it mean to us, how do we understand our money, when we understand that God is creator, and that everything that we own was created by Him? Now, the theological truth is that makes us stewards. If God is the creator of everything in the world, then anything that comes into our hand, that means comes into our ownership, that we have control over, makes us stewards of it. Just about the best text on that is 1 Chronicles 29, 1-18, which I hope you've read. I hope you've looked at already. And there we have a speech by David after the people of God had given money in order to build a temple. And David says, verse 11, Everything in heaven and earth is yours. Wealth and honor come from you, for you are the ruler of all things. Verse 14, Everything comes from you, and we have only given you what comes from your hand. 16, All this abundance that we have provided comes from your hand, and all of it belongs to you. 17, I know, my God, that you test the heart, and are pleased with me. 18, I know that you are pleased with me, and I am pleased with integrity. 19, All these things I have given you willingly. Now, from this we learn the following under this heading of theological truth. We learn here first of all that everything you have is a gift from God. Everything. If you got what you've got through inheritance, that's a gift of God that you were given the family lines that you have. On the other hand, if everything you have you earned, but you earned it with the gifts of God, you earned it with health, which is from God. You earned it with your mind. You earned it with your talents. You earned it with your savvy. You earned it with your personal connection. You earned it all through tools and means that God gave you. And therefore, everything you own is a gift. It's completely from God. Number one. Number two, under theological truth, we learn that though God may give us power over parts of his world, in other words, the money that belongs to you and the home and the property, everything that we own, means that God has given us something of his world. Into our hand. We have power over it. But God does not give us ownership over it. You see, the word hand that shows up so often in this text is important. Everything comes from God's hand, which means, since the word hand in the Bible means power, it means that if you own a home, it means that has come from God's hand and now it's in your hand. You have power over it. You can do with it. You're the owner. But this text tells us that. It tells us over and over that though God gives you power over parts of his world, he doesn't give you ownership over it. Because David says, everything comes from you. This abundance that we have provided comes from your hand and all of it belongs to you. And so that means that though everything is a gift, you don't actually own it. So number three, that means that we relate to it as stewards. We relate to it very much as a stockbroker relates to the money given by the client. The money is in your hand. The money is under your power. You can invest it where you decide to invest it. But actually it's not your money. It belongs to the client. And that means number four, a lack of generosity is not just stinginess, but it's dishonesty. You see this very important verse in verse 17. David says, I know, my God, that you test the heart and are pleased with integrity. All these things I have given you willingly. Isn't that interesting that David says, I have given, I've given out of my wealth generously because I want to be a person of integrity. That's very interesting. A failure to be abundantly generous to God's causes, to the things God wants us to give to, to his work, to his church, to the poor, to friends in need. A failure to be abundantly generous to God's causes is dishonesty. It's a lack of integrity. It's not a failure to be compassionate. It's not just stinginess. It's dishonesty. Just like a stockbroker who doesn't do with the money what the client asks would be guilty not of just stinginess or stubbornness, but of all the things that he's done. He's done a lot of robbery. In Malachi chapter 3 verse 8, God makes this absolutely blatant when he says, you're robbing me because you are not giving the full tithe. You're not giving fully and generously. We'll get to that in a second. You're robbing me. So if our money was ours, failure to give it to God's causes would be a lack of compassion. But if it's his, then failure to give it away in generous proportions is a collapse of integrity, the greatest of injustices. Now, second, as we look at our money through the lens of creation, we're going to see that we not only get this theological truth that we're stewards, but we also get a new understanding of our motivation for giving. And the motivation we have for giving is an excited obligation. When we become stewards, we have an obligation to do with our money as the client asks, but it's an exciting obligation. If you take a look at Matthew 25 verses 14 to 30, which I think is a great text on the obligation, pardon me, the motivation. We read the famous parable of the master who goes away on a trip, but before he goes away, he takes three servants and gives each of them some of his money. Five talents to one servant, two to another, and one to a third servant. And when he comes back, he has expected to see that each servant has multiplied the money. And two of them do, one of them does not. It says in verse 24, Then the man who had received the one talent came and said, Master, I knew that you were a hard man, harvesting where you have not sown, gathering where you have not scattered. So I was afraid and I went out and hid your talent. Here's what belongs to you. And his master replied, You wicked, lazy servant. Now, here's what we learn from this. First of all, we learn that stewardship is not holding on to God's resources, but it's actually giving them out. You see, the goal of the stewards, the master does not want us to bury, just to hold on to his master. He's not going to bury his money. The goal of the stewards is to send his money out. Send the money out. Because a steward is not someone who just guards money, but who invests it. Secondly, we learn that the steward's job in investing is to put the money into those things that will bring the master happiness. Now, of course, in the parable, they take five talents and they invest the money in stocks or in business. And when the master comes back, he gets five more. And we have to deal with that. But we have to understand the image here is that we, with our money, have to ask ourselves, What are we supposed to do with our money? Where are we supposed to put it? In such a way that the money produces those things which brings the master the most happiness. I mean, what makes the master happy? We're supposed to say, What gives God joy? And we're supposed to take that money that we've got and as much as we possibly can give it out into those causes that bring the master joy. So stewardship, you see, is multiplying those things the master values. After his concern, after his heart. Does it mean, for example, taking the money and planting churches with it? Does it mean winning people to Christ? Of course. Does that rejoice the master's heart? Of course. Jesus Christ says there's a singing in heaven over one sheep, one lost sheep that's found. But also, we're supposed to put our money, we know from the Bible, into the poor, as we will see. There's a tremendous number of texts. Maybe 20% of all the things Jesus says has to do with our responsibility to give our money to the poor. We're also supposed to do good to the other Christians around us and to non-Christian neighbors. Galatians 6.10, do good to all, especially those in the household of faith. So you see, we first of all see that stewardship is giving away, not holding on. Secondly, we see that stewardship is actually investing the money into, thirdly, things that bring the master joy. Now lastly, there's an indication here that spiritual stewardship is the only lasting investment. You see, what's so interesting about this, if God is the owner of your money, then you are supposed to invest that money for God. And to put your money into things that God rejoices in is not only the only just investment, it's not only the only fair one because after all it's not your money, but it's the only wise investment. Because you want to put your money into things that last. And if you buy a pair of shoes, the shoes will not last. And if you buy a car, the car will not last. But if you take that money and put it into somebody's life, into somebody's soul, into pulling people up out of the life they're in and changing their lives, those things last forever. And there's an indication there when we see that the faithful stewards are given much. Now we're not told exactly what that is, but the unfaithful steward is thrown out, we're told, into the outer darkness where there's weeping and gnashing of teeth. What that means is if you spend all your money on yourself, you will be beggars throughout eternity. If you spend all your money, as much as you possibly can, on the things that bring joy to God, you will be rich forever, throughout all eternity. And therefore, the joy, the motivation of a steward is to take God's money, you see it's an obligation, but invest it in those things which bring Him riches forever and, frankly, you. And therefore, it's giving your money away into God's causes is not only the only just investment, it's the only wise one, it's the only smart one, it's the only lasting one. Now, lastly, we have to deal with it, and this makes this take just a teeny bit longer than the other two because I had to do an introduction. There's a practical guideline as well. If you look at mainly the Old Testament in particular, and you ask the question, is if I'm a steward of the things that God has given me, what proportion should I be giving away? What is the general guideline for biblical generosity? And when we look at the Bible and we look at the money through the lens of creation, the answer is what the Bible calls the tithe. The Bible calls us to use 10% as the basic guideline for understanding how much we should be giving. So in Luke 11, verses 37 to 42, we see something very, very basic. This is what Jesus says to the Pharisees. He's very unhappy with the Pharisees for spending all of their concern on externals instead of internals, all their emphasis on external behavior instead of the motives of the heart. And He says, Now you Pharisees, clean the outside of the cup and dish, but inside you are full of greed and wickedness. Woe to you, because you give God a tenth of mint, rue, and all other garden herbs. But you neglect justice and the love of God. You should have practiced the latter without leaving the former undone. And what we learn here is, first of all, Jesus does accept the guideline of the tithe. You notice when He says, You should have practiced the latter without neglecting the former. Now what He's saying is, you do tithe. You tithe everything, every little garden leaf. But on the other hand, you neglect the motivation of loving others, that's justice, and loving God, that's the love of God. And first of all, Jesus says, First of all, you're right not to neglect the former. And the former is tithing. And so you see, Jesus is actually saying, tithing absolutely is something we should be doing. And of course, it's just common sense. Can you imagine that in the New Testament, Christians would be less indebted to God than believers in the Old Testament? Or put it another way, can you imagine that New Testament Christians would get less of God's money to invest than Old Testament believers did? Of course not. So Jesus says, The guideline is a tithe. Unless you're giving along the lines of the guideline, you're not giving in biblical proportions. But what's so fascinating about this text is He is cursing them. He's saying, woe to you. But what is He cursing them for? For only tithing. Isn't that amazing? See, He says, you do tithe, and that's good. I'm glad you're not leaving the former undone. But it's not enough to tithe. Why? Because you've got to get your heart into it. You have to be desiring justice. And you need to be passionate for God. And we're going to get to this in the third tape. But right now, what this means is that the New Testament gives the tithe as a guideline, but says, If you're only tithing in a mechanical way, if you're only tithing in a kind of uncreative way, If you don't want to tithe, if you don't want to give more than a tithe, If there's not an inner passion toward giving to others and to God, Then Jesus is condemning it. Jesus is condemning it. It really means, Jesus is clobbering people for a legalistic attitude toward the tithe. So on the one hand, we are not supposed to say, If I don't tithe, I'm sinning. I mean, if you have bills and unpaid debts and you can't get to them, it's more important Then you pay your creditors, then that you do a tithe. Why? Because Jesus here is telling us that though the tithe is the guideline, He's down on legalism. He's down on people worrying about legalism, legal restrictions and strictures in every way. He's really after the heart. He's after the inside of the cup. That's the important thing. But, but, on the other hand, the tithe is a guideline. He says you shouldn't neglect it. And therefore, if you ask, how much should we give? Jesus' answer is, give the tithe. But if you only give the tithe, that doesn't please me. Give the heart. So there you have it. The theological principle, your stewards. The motivational dynamic, and that is the excitement of investing God's money. The practical guideline, the tithe. Please discuss this amongst yourselves and I will be back to you when you get a chance to listen to the second talk. Alright, we're back for our second talk, second of the three talks that we've entitled, Giving Three Biblical Perspectives. We said in the first talk that if you're not radically generous, you're not taking seriously the Christian doctrine of creation. You're not understanding, taking seriously the fact that everything you have is a gift. Everything you have is God's creation and that you are stewards of it. But now secondly, through the second talk, the second lens as we call it, we say that if you're not being very generous with your giving, it's because you're not taking seriously the Christian doctrine of sin. You're not taking seriously the fact that we live in a fallen world. And we said under this lens, through this lens, we have a theological truth, a motivational dynamic, and a practical guideline. So let's get going. The theological truth, is that money in a fallen world has an enslaving power that is very great and very dangerous. Maybe the best place to look at that is Mark chapter 10, verses 17 to 31, which is the famous story of the rich young ruler. And that's the man who came to Jesus and said, Good teacher, what must I do to inherit eternal life? And Jesus said, You know the commandments. Do not murder, do not commit adultery, do not steal. Teacher, he says, I've kept all of these since I was a boy. And Jesus says, One thing you lack, go sell every single thing you have, and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven. Then come follow me. And at this he went away sad, for he had great wealth. How hard for the rich to enter the kingdom of God, said Jesus. Now, here's what we learn. First of all, we learn that in a fallen world, money is a master. Money is a master that demands service and allegiance in competition with Christ. You notice in this text, Jesus says, Go sell everything you have, and then follow me. Now that fits in completely with texts like Luke 16, 13, that says you cannot serve God and money. Or Matthew 6, 24, which also says, You cannot serve, or you can serve either God or money. Both texts are parallel to Mark 10. They both say, if you want treasure in heaven, you've got to give away your money. You can't serve money and God. And so clearly, the first point is that in a fallen world, money can be a master. Money can demand control. It can actually have a kind of spiritual domination over us. That's the first thing. Second thing we learn, under this truth, is that the more money you have, the harder it is to make spiritual progress. You know, Jesus says that. He says, How hard for the rich to enter the kingdom of God. And the plain fact is, in this world, that the more wealth a person has, the more blessed a person thinks they are. And people too. Rich people tend to be put onto boards. Rich people tend to have high self-esteem. Jesus comes and turns that on his head and says, The richer you are, the more spiritually dangerous a condition you're in. And the question, of course, what about riches would make things spiritually dangerous? And you've got a perfect illustration right here. The rich young ruler. Why is it that he thinks he's good? Why is it that he thinks he's obeyed the law? Why does he obey the Ten Commandments? That he's basically a good guy? Why does he show no need for mercy? He has no desire for a savior. He's self-sufficient. He's self-reliant. And Jesus says, Wealth tends to do that to you. That what money tends to do, is it tends to make you feel like, I must be living right. I must be doing things pretty right. It tends to make your heart hard. It tends to make you feel like you're not a sinner that needs grace and mercy. It tends to make you say, I must be smart. I must be living right. I must be valuable. And so money had turned into something that made this man self-sufficient, self-righteous, spiritually. And therefore, we see here that money has that tremendous spiritual control over people. Then the third thing we see here, under this theological truth, that money has an enslaving power, is Jesus shows us that the only way we know we can be free from the power of money, the only way we can break the power of money over us, is to be radically generous. Now, see, Jesus asks this man to give it all away. And of course, some people have said that must be a call, that Christians should give all their money away, should have no wealth. But you can't get that out of the Scripture in a rigid way, because remember when Zacchaeus in Luke 19, he says, I'm going to give half my money away. And Jesus says, fine. And of course, as we saw last time in the first study, Jesus only calls really for 10%. So it doesn't mean that we have to be living in voluntary poverty. But what he's actually saying here is, we have to give our money away in radical proportions to break the power of it over ourselves. And here, what he's really saying to this rich young man is, are you willing to lose it all for me? Are you willing to let me have complete control over all of your money? Are you willing to make me the way you know you've got meaning and value, as opposed to your money? You see, that's what Jesus is after. He's after breaking the power of money over us. And the only way you can know that the power of money has been broken over us, over you, is to see yourself giving it away. Now, that's the first theological point. That is that money in a fallen world is an enslaving power. Now, secondly, we've got a motivational impulse. When we understand, through the lens of sin, that money is an enslaving power, then our motivation for giving money away is, this sounds weird, is selfish, in that we want to liberate our hearts. We want to liberate our hearts from idolatry. We want to liberate our hearts from the things in our heart that tend to enslave us. And there's no better way, and no more fundamental way, of dealing with our sin than through giving. Now, this is actually a new insight for me, or at least to some degree it's a new insight. Let me share that with you. If you take a look at Matthew 6, 1 to 4, and then 19 to 34,

great verses, which I hope you've taken a look at already. Now, here's what we learn. First of all, verse 21, For where your treasure is, there is your heart also. Now, boy, the principle behind this is that money is not simply a master, a controlling power itself, but money is an indicator of where the real ruling idols and enslaving powers of your life really are. In other words, the idols of your heart, the things you look to instead of Jesus Christ as the source of your happiness, and joy, and self-worth, and we all have these idols. The idols of your heart use money for their own end, and therefore to watch how your money goes is to understand your idols. So what it means when Jesus says, For where your treasure is, there is your heart, is this, money is the best way to identify what you really love. In other words, what you most rest in your heart, what you most adore, what you most worship, is indicated by money. And that's where you spend your money most easily. In other words, if we actually love Jesus with all of our heart, soul, strength, and mind, then we would be so unbelievably generous. It would never hurt to give our money away. But we have other idols, and wherever those idols are, we spend our money most effortlessly. So in my case, let me be real honest about this, I find that I can spend money on books like that. And one of the reasons why is not just because I love books. Why do I love books? And why do I spend so much money on books, which I have a tendency to do? And the answer is, books for me represent expertise. And expertise is what makes me a good teacher. And I get a great deal of my self-worth and a lot of my security out of the fact that I'm a teacher, and that people think I'm a good teacher, and they come to listen to me, and I know a lot. And because that is my security, more than Jesus Christ and His love for me and His care for me, well, that means that I spend my own books so easily. And that's the reason why tithing to Jesus is much harder for me than buying books. What does that mean? It means that if we take a look carefully at our money, if we find it so easy to spend money on clothes, without even thinking, for me, I hate spending money on clothes, but you see, I don't get much of my self-worth out of my appearance. Where do you spend your money most easily? That's where your idols are. Now, what kind of idols can use money? And there's just a whole slew of them, but actually, there's a couple of them in this text that I want to show you. So, for example, in verse 2, we read this, When you give to the needy, don't do it as the hypocrites, to be honored by men. Now, that is a status idol. Money is a way, for some people, to get into certain circles that make them feel good about themselves. When money is being used by a status idol, or you might even say a power idol, then what you'll do, you'll spend a tremendous amount of money to live in the right neighborhoods, to get into certain clubs, to spend a lot of money on your clothing, so you get into certain circles of people. Because the way in which you are getting your significance and security and your self-worth is by getting into those particular circles of society. And you're using your money that way. And Jesus is saying, take a look at that. Look at that. Do not let money do that to you. Secondly, let me give you a second kind of idol. And that is the idol of certainty. If you take a look down at verse 31, he says, so do not worry, saying, what shall we eat? What shall we wear? For the pagans run after these things, but your heavenly Father knows that you need them. Now, you see that? Here, money is being used by a certainty idol. Now, what do I mean by a certainty idol? For some of us, we absolutely have to feel that we can control our circumstances. We have to know that we have so much money in the bank that even if this goes wrong or that goes wrong, I will be in control. These are people, by the way, there's many people who do not use their money to get into fancy neighborhoods. They do not use their money to buy beautiful clothes. They don't. And of course, they sneer at people who think so. But they save a tremendous amount of money and they stock it away and they put it away and they're very ungenerous because they use their money as a way of feeling like, I can control my life. And if, see, instead of relying on Jesus for your security, instead of trusting in God, you're trying to be your own God. And so, if you worry tremendously about money, you notice this passage on worry comes right after the verse that says, verse 24, which says, you cannot serve both God and money. And then it goes into worry. If you're always worrying about money, that proves that money is enslaving you through the idol that says, you can really control your circumstances. You don't rely on God. Or, as we said, in terms of power and status, you might be spending a great deal of money. You might not be saving a thing because you're spending your money on dressing nicely and going out to certain places because it's so important for you to have money is helping you get into those circles of people. But do you not get it? Don't you see? Money enslaves us. And by giving our money away, we break those idols. Money has the power to do much worse than just what I mentioned. It can make you do all sorts of things. Money is like heroin in that when you're only using a little bit of it, you don't know why in the world you would want more. But when you get more, you find out you need more. And the more you get, the more you feel like you need. And so on. So Christians need to give. They have to give. It's the only way to get liberation. Now lastly, the third of the three things is a practical guideline. And when we understand that money is dangerous spiritually, it's enslaving power, and we start to see the only way to liberate our heart from idols is by giving our money away. And in the process of trying to give your money away, you will come to grips with those idols. You will see what you really rely on instead of Jesus Christ. You will see your clothing lust, or your neighborhood lust, or your savings account lust. And you'll start to say, what does that mean? In what way am I actually contradicting God? In what way am I actually avoiding Jesus Christ as Savior and God as Father? You will. So you've got to give away to liberate your heart. Now, the practical guideline I'm only going to mention. But you ought to take a look at 1 Timothy 6, 6-10, and 17-19. Because there, Paul says, Godliness with contentment is great gain and with food and clothing we should be content with that. For we brought nothing into the world and will take nothing out. Then down in verse 17-19 it says, Tell those who are rich in this present world not to be arrogant or to put their hope in wealth, but command them to do good and to be rich in good deeds. Now, if you only had verses 6-10, you might think that Paul was saying you all have to live in total poverty. Just food and shelter. Give everything else away. Then down in 17-19 he's telling the rich to be extremely generous in their good deeds. He doesn't say that they should stop being rich. If you put the two together, here's what you've got. Paul is really saying here, the important thing is for you to lower your lifestyle. You should give so much away that you are bringing your lifestyle away from all the luxuries that you could have. Even if you have a lot of money, you may be a rich Christian, but you shouldn't be a rich living Christian. You ought to be asking, what are my necessities? What are the basic things that I really need to support my family, to live in the place where I feel God has called me to live? Living in Manhattan, if God has called you to live here, it is going to take more money for an apartment than somewhere else. If you're going to be rich in good deeds in Manhattan, you'll have to spend more money and you'll have to make more money. So we're really talking very reasonably about these questions. What do I need to keep my health? What are my basic necessities? What do I need to live in a place where God has called me to live? You're supposed to go to that level and not continually try to accrue more and more. It's as simple as that. That's the reason why we say God calls us to a simpler lifestyle than we would have if we weren't Christians. God calls us to lower our lifestyle to a certain degree. So, we need to consider that simple living, giving your money away radically, is the only way to be free And the best way to find out how your heart really works and to liberate it from those things which is making it break down. Now, see you on tape number three. Okay, this is Tim Keller and this is the third of the three tapes on giving. And we looked at our money through the lens of creation and through the lens of the fallen sin. And now we're looking at our money through the lens of God's grace or redemption. And what we mean is if you know you're a sinner saved by grace and the world is being saved by grace through Christ, how does that affect the way in which we use and look at our money? And the answer is this. The theological truth is that money, if you give it away generously, becomes a quote, currency of grace, unquote. That's my term. Money, if you give it away generously, models God's grace to other people and is used by the Spirit to actually help people experience God's grace. Money, given away generously, models God's grace and is a venue, a channel for the experience of God's grace. The best text on that is 2 Corinthians 9, 1-15. And it teaches us several things. First of all, it teaches us that Christians' money, when it's given away generously and joyfully, becomes like God's grace. I don't know any other way to say it. In verse 7 it says, Each man should give what he has decided in his heart to give. For God loves the cheerful giver. And God is able to make all grace abound to you so that in all things, having all that you need, you will abound in every good work. Notice, you see what it's saying here? It's saying that God gives you grace and as a result, you give your money. You see, actually, sometimes if you read through the text, you'll see that the word grace and the word giving goes back and forth, and you're not even sure sometimes where Paul is talking about God's grace to us and where he's actually talking about our money to others. So when we give generously and joyfully, it becomes to other people like God's grace. And, how does it do that? Well, if you look carefully, you'll see it says that Christians' generosity to others helps people believe that God has been generous to us. Only when we are tremendously generous to other people will the world believe that God has been tremendously generous to us. See? In verse 11 it says, You will be made rich in every way so that you can be generous on every occasion. Again, it's hard to know whether that means, does that mean that God is actually going to make you financially rich? It can't mean that. There's no promise to that in the Bible. So it must mean that because we become rich in grace, it is going to make us generous with our money. And then go on in verse 11, And through us your generosity will result in thanksgiving to God. Because of this service by which you have proved yourselves, verse 13, men will praise God for the obedience that accompanies your confession of the gospel. That clearly says that when people see you giving your money away in radical proportions, it will have a spiritual effect. They will say, My word, what's happened to these people? It is a miracle to be generous. Especially now in this world. And when people see you being that generous, they're actually going to say, maybe something's happened to this person. So the only way that people are going to believe that God has been generous to us is if we're generous to other people. There is no more powerful evidence. And you know what? It's a model. It's a perfect model. It's a model of exactly what Jesus Christ has done for us. So, the theological truth is that money becomes a currency of grace, a channel for changing people's lives. That people will only believe in the world that God has been generous to us when we're generous like crazy to everybody else. The motivation, number two, is that now, the second part of this is that now Christians will want to give. You see, the lens of creation tells us Christians are obliged to give. And the lens of sin tells us that Christians need to give. But the lens of grace shows us that Christians will want to give. And the way you know that you're a sinner saved by grace and that you understand the gospel is that there will be a growing desire to give your money away. In Acts chapter 4, 31 and 32, we read this. After they had prayed, the place where they were meeting was shaken. And they were filled with the Holy Spirit, and they spoke the word of God boldly. What does it mean to be filled with the Holy Spirit? Whenever the Holy Spirit came down on Jesus Christ, it said, You are my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. See, the job of the Holy Spirit is to show us Jesus Christ and God's love for us through Christ. There's many, many places in Romans 5, verse 5, in Romans 8, verse 15 and 16, where it tells us the job of the Holy Spirit is to come down and to assure us that though we're sinners, we are absolutely safe in Jesus' grace and that God loves us completely and thoroughly. So when it came down on the disciples in Acts chapter 4, verse 31, they were filled with the Holy Spirit and they spoke the word of God boldly. Why, of course, they weren't afraid of anything, because now they knew that God loved them. That's what the Holy Spirit does. But get this, in verse 32, all the believers were one in heart and mind. No one claimed that any of his possessions was his own. But they shared everything they had, and with great power, the apostles continued to testify of the resurrection. Now, what does this tell us? First of all, it tells us when the Holy Spirit comes down on us and makes us fearless, fills us with love, that you will become a generous person with your money. You see, the assurance of love doesn't just influence words. It doesn't just say in verse 31, they spoke the word of God boldly. It also says they were not afraid anymore to give their money away. You see, one of the marks of a life touched by grace is that you're not afraid of giving your money away. You trust God now. You know that he loves you. A lot of people want to be generous, but they're scared. If you experience the grace of Jesus Christ, that fear goes away. Another way to put this is another way to put this is that if you believe that you're really a sinner, pardon me, that you are a person saved by your works, you're trying your best, you're trying hard, well, you're going to be kind of begrudging about giving away your money because you feel like, hey, I've you know, I've worked for this, I've earned this. You may feel kind of like there's people out there asking for a handout. Why don't they work for it? There's a certain self-righteousness toward others. There's a certain superiority. And there's an insecurity. Because if you're trying to save yourself through your good works in your heart, you're always a little unsure of where you stand with God. So see, the insecurity of works righteousness and the superiority of works righteousness makes you ungenerous. But to the degree that works righteousness has been cleansed out of you, and it hasn't been all cleansed out of me, I can tell you that, to the degree that it's cleansed out of you, you not only lose your insecurity so you can trust God, but you lose your pride so you feel like people around me have as much right to my money as I do, because you're just a humble sinner saved by grace. The more you understand what Jesus Christ has done for you, the more you see that he has done it freely, the more you experience the grace of God, the more you will want to give. You'll lose your fear. There'll be a desire to give your money away. And you'll say, this can change somebody's life, and it's only right that I give it away the way Jesus Christ gave his life away. And therefore, we see how important it is that we want to give our money away to the degree that we grasp the grace of God. Now lastly, the practical guideline. We said that the theological thing we learned, theological truth, is that grace is a way to change people's lives, because it's a model of and a venue for God's grace in other people's lives. Secondly, we said that there's a passion to give. The more we see where a sinner is saved by grace and not by works, a passion grows to give. And if you are not experiencing that passion, instead of just simply giving your money away mechanically, though that's a good thing to do, to obey what Jesus said about the tithe and all that, you need to go to the roots of your life. You need to go down into your heart. You need to say to yourself, why am I not generous? Is it because I basically have the insecurity and the pride that comes from works righteousness? It must be, to some degree. So look at your passions. Now thirdly, I'm sorry, I backtracked there. Thirdly, the practical guideline that we have seen when you look at money through this lens is that, remember the first week we said, or pardon me, the first talk we said, if God is the creator, give the tithe. Okay? If we are sinners, then give the excess. Do simple living. Give anything over and above what you just basically need. The third practical guideline for giving is, give the tithe, give the excess, and now give the sacrifice. That means, 1 Corinthians 8, 1 to 15, we see that the key to giving is not the amount, but the sacrifice. Paul tells us that the impoverished Macedonians, verse 3, gave as much as they were able and beyond their abilities. This doesn't mean they gave more than they had, of course, but it means that what they gave really hurt. Jonathan Edwards, when he was preaching a sermon on Galatians 6.1, where it says, bear each other's burdens, Jonathan Edwards said people objected that they couldn't afford to give. I'd like to give, but I can't afford it. And this is what he said. He says, if we are never going to give, except when we can do it without burdening ourselves, how do we bear others' burdens when we bear ourselves no burden at all? Now let me unpack that for you. He takes a look at Galatians 6.1 that says, bear each other's burdens. If you're going to bear the burdens of the church, if you're going to bear the burdens of the poor, you give your money. If somebody says, well, I can't afford to give, what you usually mean is, I can't afford to give without burdening myself, without sacrificing, without it cutting into the way in which I live. Yes, of course. Jonathan Edwards says that's the whole point. If you see somebody carrying a hundred pounds and you want to help them bear the burden, you've got to let some of the burden fall on you. And when people say, I can't afford to give, what they usually mean is, I can't afford to give without sacrificing. And of course, you're supposed to sacrifice. Why? Because the other point of this passage, if you look at verse 8 to 9 of 2 Corinthians 8, it says, I am not commanding you, but I want to test the sincerity of your love by comparing it with the earnestness of others. For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor, so that through his poverty we might become rich. See, all Paul is saying is, don't sit down with a calculator. Don't sit down with a calculator. Don't respond to a command. Think about what Jesus Christ has done for you. What he did, yes, he gave, but he sacrificed. That's what he did. He sacrificed. Until your giving is a sacrifice, until your giving entails a sacrifice, until your giving causes sacrifices in your life, makes you give up things that you would have otherwise, you are not responding to what Jesus Christ has done for you. In other words, as somebody put it, Christianity demands the love that cannot be given to others. It requires a generosity that must not simply be the response to a requirement. It must be spontaneous, or it shouldn't really be at all. It's possible to be intellectually assenting to all the stuff I've been saying, but never really be so convicted of sin and so experiencing the grace of Jesus Christ that you want to give. So what you've got to do, if you want to give freely, unbegrudgingly, then you've got to go back to your heart and you've got to ask, am I giving out the grace of God? Am I living out the grace of God? Am I responding to the grace of God? Am I being consistent with the grace of God? And the more you ask yourself that, the more you will find in your own heart a desire to give. In short, unless you've gone through this process of examining how to spend your money by repenting and revising the amount you give and spend on yourself, and then usually going through a kind of fear or pain or resentment when you realize what you should be doing, that it first brings you into a certain amount of distress, but eventually brings you into more joy toward God, more freedom within yourself, and more love for other people. Unless you've gone through that process of examining how to spend your money, repenting, getting scared or even resentful, and breaking through to more joy toward God, freedom toward yourself, and love for others. Unless you've done that, you really can't be like Jesus. You really can't grow like Him. Giving is not just a duty to back on to the rest of the things that we're supposed to do as a Christian. Giving is the heart of everything. It's the heart of faith, it's the heart of hope, it's the heart of love. It's the heart of believing the doctrine of creation, the doctrine of sin, and the doctrine of redemption. It's the only way we're ever going to really be all the things that Jesus Christ has called us to be. Please discuss this as you have the others, and see you in church. Thanks.