Too much to talk about, and therefore we're going to concentrate only on Matthew 7, verses 13 through 14.

The end of the Sermon on the Mount, this last part, and here is where we see Jesus, like any good preacher, beginning to bring home, make it personal, bring home his message.

Enter through the narrow gate, for wide is the gate and broad is the road that leads to destruction, and many enter through it. But small is the gate and narrow the road that leads to life, and only a few find it. Here ends the reading of God's holy word. The old King James of course says Straight is the gate And it uses the word S-T-R-A-I-T Straight An old word that means confined It means narrow, it means pinched And unfortunately in our modern language The only place we use the word straight anymore Is a what? Straight jacket Which of course is confining Straight is the gate and narrow is the way that leads to life, wide is the gate, and broad is the road that leadeth to destruction. Oh my. Jesus Christ, like any good preacher, is nearing the end of the Sermon on the Mount and he's bringing home, he's making personal his teaching. And here and to the end of the chapter, he gets very, very tough. And he's saying here, my teaching is not to be praised, but to be practiced. My teaching is not to be commended, but to be carried out. And he comes because he believes that the word of God has got to be set loose in our lives. So that it can transform us. Do you understand that? Do you come to hear a sermon? Do you come to read the Bible? Do you come to look at Christ's teachings, expecting a little inspiration or just a little bit of guidance? You have got a tiger by the tail. Because Jesus Christ never has ever told anyone something just so you might know it. Jesus gives you nothing just to be known. Jesus only ever gives us truth so that it will come into our lives and revolutionize and transform us. And that's why he's talking the way he is here. He's bringing it home. He's setting it straight. great. And at this point, he talks about the narrowness of the gospel. Now, I must tell you, well, I'll tell you, I'll be frank up here. You may think that I'm going to enjoy preaching on this, but I'm as much a New Yorker as you are in many ways. It is very hard to talk about, to urge people to be narrow. And yet Jesus has deliberately chosen a word that we all despise as a way to characterize what a disciple of his is like. The last thing in the world we want to be called is narrow. Anything in New York would rather be called than narrow. You can call me anything, but don't call me narrow. And if you want to be nasty to somebody, you can do anything. You can say anything, but you know if you say you're narrow-minded that the person says, not that. Don't say that. Don't tell anybody that. Now, to a degree that's healthy, of course.

because God forbid that we might ever be like the Pharisees who reduced the gospel to a set of regulations and rules. God forbid that we'd ever make the glorious gospel into something that can be confined to a bunch of rules and regulations. And yet, there must be some way in which Jesus Christ here is saying that we have got to be narrow, or he would not have chosen the word. He says, if you want to follow me, you must take the narrow way. Christianity is now in a vital way.

In a vital way. It's now in that it demands focus and authenticity and intensity and full commitment and discipline. And anybody who's accomplished anything in your life, you know that the narrow gate is the way into fullness. For example, you want to be a doctor? You want to be a good doctor? years. You do virtually nothing but study and your time of residence. You do nothing but prepare to be a doctor. You just are absolutely narrow. You're focused. You're intensely fully committed, even if you don't want to be. You want to be a world-class musician? You better give it eight to ten hours of practice a day for a long time. That's the narrowness, but it's the only way into the fullness fulfilledness and freedom of great performance. You want to make money? You have to intensely look at investment opportunities. You must look and look and discern and discern and only go after the authentic investment opportunities and get rid of the phony and the bogus ones. You want to have a world-class corporation? Quality, quality, quality. So you have to constantly go after the narrowness of quality if you want eventually the fulfilledness and the life of prosperity. That's the way it's always been. And Jesus says, in spiritual things, you have got to do the same. Most of us are quite willing in every other area to understand that unless I have the narrowness of physical conditioning, I'm never going to have the fullness of physical health. Unless I have the narrowness of practice, musical practice, I'm never going to have the fullness of musical performance. We understand all of that, but when it comes to religion, we back away. Jesus says, you mustn't. fact that you find now and it's leading to fullness in all of these other areas is because I built the universe like that. And in the area of most importance, our relationship with God, our soul's prosperity, it's the same. And so Jesus tells us here that there's two roads and only two roads in spiritual matters. Then he describes those two roads and he tells us how to be on the right one. And that's what we're going to do. Let's just outline what he tells us. It's as blunt, it's as clear, it's as unmistakable as you can get. There's just nothing gray about this. This is black and white. There is no fine lines. This is strong, clear lines. Two roads. Here's what they are. Here's how to be on the right road. Okay. Number one. There's two roads. And what does that mean? Jesus Christ is teaching that there is no neutrality. In spiritual things, no one is on the fence. No one is stagnant. No one is standing still. He is saying there's two and only two roads and they go to two different destinations. That means if you're on the right road, you're going toward life. If you're on the wrong road, every second you're on that wrong road, you're going further away from life. No one's on the fence. No one is at the crossroads. There's no crossroads. there's no neutrality there's no stagnation we're all moving one way or the other now this really brings up some problems right away it brings up some problems and a lot of people are really upset about such a statement this teaching of Jesus Christ puts him on a collision course with virtually all modern thinking in the last 100 to 150 years. Back in the 19th century in Europe, the knowledge classes began to teach that all religions were basically the same. So you had books coming out like Ludwig Feuerbach's book, The Essence of Christianity. And the whole idea behind these books, that was just one of many, but the idea was the essence of any religion is whatever it has in common with all other religions. And the assumption is that all religions are the same. So the illustration that was put forward 100 years ago was that really when it comes to spiritual matters and religion, the best illustration is to think of a mountain. And at the top of the mountain is God. And every religion is a different road up the top of the mountain. And everyone must find his own road to the top. So there's many roads, but one destination. nation. Now this teaching that started 150 years ago in Europe has now really come down so that in our culture, the common person on the street has an extremely strong version of that. And almost all of us have heard it, one way or the other, directed towards someone else or even directed toward us. And it goes like this, what? You mean to tell me you believe through Jesus Christ and no other? And does that mean that you believe that sincere people all around the world who don't believe like you believe are eternally lost? Unbelievable. Incredibly bigoted. Tremendously prejudiced. Right? That is the prevailing view in our culture. The U.S. Constitution was committed to the idea that all religions should be equally tolerated practice their faith in our country. But today we look at the U.S. Constitution and we use the Constitution and we merge it with the current worldview, not to say that all religions should be equally tolerated, but we say, and we hold it as a policy in our public life today, that all religions are equally correct. The Constitution didn't say that, but that's the belief. Most modern Protestant denominations back out of all the places they used to be. Why? We don't want to give anybody the impression we believe our religion is superior.

Now, Jesus Christ says, in the simplest terms, there's two roads, and only two roads, and there's two different destinations. And that's diametrically opposed to the modern model, which says there's many roads and one destination. Hmm? Many roads and one. Jesus says there's two roads and two destinations. is as blunt as he can be. John chapter 14, I am the way, the truth, the life. No man comes to the Father but by me. Acts chapter 5, we're told there is no other name under heaven whereby men through which men can be saved. It couldn't be clearer. Now what do we do about this? Head-on collision. What do we do about the charge that therefore, in its essence, Christianity is bigoted? What do we do about that? answer. The charge of bigotry is not true because it's internally contradictory. Here, let me frame it again. It goes like this. You must not believe your religion is superior to others because all religions, or every religion, fits different people. Every religion fits different people and the way you validate the authenticity of a religion is in the privacy of your own heart and life. And therefore, you must not urge your religion on anybody else. You must not evangelize. Religion is a private thing. Something that only individuals can find in their own hearts. Don't urge your religion on anything else. That's the objection. That request is an impossible request. Because as you make the request, you deny the request. And as you set up the rule, you break the rule. because that particular view is a very, very, very assertive view about religion. It's asserting that all religions are subjective. That means all religions are equally correct. It's a position. It's called religious relativism, that all positions are equally correct, and therefore, therefore we shouldn't evangelize, right? If you believe that some religions were superior to others, then you have to evangelize. But if you believe that no religions are superior to others, then you are evangelizing your religious relativism view. And when you urge me, for example, not to urge my religion on anybody else, you're urging your religion on me. You're evangelizing me not to evangelize. You are doing the very thing you forbid. Do you understand? See, there is no way not to evangelize. Even when you say don't evangelize, you're doing it. Because you're imposing a relativistic view on an objective view. See, up until 150 years ago, all religions got together and said, look, we may all be wrong, but we can't all be right. You know, two people contradict one another. We say, you could be wrong and I could be right, or I could be right and you could be wrong. Or, we could both be wrong, but we can't both be right. And so the real question is, who's right? right. A hundred and fifty years ago, the knowledge classes began to say everybody's right. That's a view. And that means if you don't believe everybody's right, you're wrong. And you see, there's no such a thing as saying to everybody's right. Because the people who say no, I don't believe everybody's right, you have to say well, you're wrong. Everybody's right. But you just did the thing that you're forbidding. You just broke the rule you just set. You just denied the request you just made. It's impossible to do. And besides that, you see, Christians don't have a choice in this matter. Because Jesus Christ comes out, unlike the founder of any other major religion, and claims to be God. Buddha didn't claim that. Mohammed didn't claim that. Confucius didn't claim that. None of these folks claimed it. Jesus alone did. he's right, then he is the only way to God. But if he's wrong, he can't be a way because he's a megalomaniac. He is a fanatic. He is a repugnant model, a model of a human being repugnant to the standard of any religion. And therefore, either he is the way or he is no way, but he's not a way. And Christians are in that position, and anybody who thinks about it realizes that too. Christ says there's two ways and only two ways. So my final, listen, we move on. If somebody says, are you telling me that if I disagree with you that I'm lost? And the answer is, it has nothing to do with me at all. Is it bigoted to say two plus two equals four? And if someone says two plus two equals five, you say, well, you have a right to your opinion. Is it bigoted to say, no, no, no, no, you're wrong. And it's not intolerant or bigoted of me to say that. Rather, you're out of touch with reality. I'm doing it for your sake. Truth operates like that in every other realm. Why doesn't it operate in the religious realm like that? Who proved that truth in the religious realm operates in a totally different realm than any other one? You see, bigotry is not conviction. bigotry is haughtiness, bigotry is pride, bigotry is coldness, bigotry is harshness, but it can't be conviction. And if Jesus is right, and you're out of touch with reality in your view, then of course there's going to be eternal consequences forever. So he first says there's two and only two ways. Then secondly, Jesus describes what those two ways are like. So you have an idea about which one you're on. What is the two ways? The one is broad and the other is narrow. Look, so you understand which way you're on, all right? Everybody here, according to Jesus, everybody in this room is on one or the other. Everybody. No neutrality. No gray areas. You're not at different places on the mountain. Two roads. The broad road. What does Jesus tell us about the broad road? Number one, the broad road is wide. And that means he actually says most people are on it. That's a startling thing to say. And he means it to be startling. I don't know how many of you drove here. A minority of you drove. And if I said, by the way, there's a policeman out there towing away an illegally parked car, some of you might get a little nervous. because some of you drove. But if I said, by the way, there's a policeman out there and they're towing away 90% of all the cars in a five block radius, a lot of you would jump up and say, probably me, right? When Jesus says, most people on the broad road, he means for it to be startling because he wants you to say, wait a minute, wait a minute. Here's the gospel. The gospel is, you must be born again. Again, the gospel is you have to come to God and you have to make an about face in your life. You have to cleave unto Jesus Christ. You receive his life into your life. You have a whole new direction. And many people, when they come and hear people say what I just said, some of you take comfort, right, in knowing that most people think that's narrow. You sit there and say, well, you know, there's a lot of interesting food for thought. but this message is just too narrow, and most people believe that. Most people believe that this whole view is really off the beam. You take comfort in being in the majority. You take comfort in the idea that most of society thinks that we're cracked. And Jesus says, listen, that's one of the ways you know you're wrong. The majority has always been against me, and if you are in the majority in your religious views, do not name my name. dare claim my name if in any society you are really in the majority. That's what he says. He says, most people are on it. So look. That's one thing. The second thing we find out about the road, besides having the majority on it, the second thing we find out is it's an easy road. Now, it doesn't actually use the word easy there when we read it, but I should tell you something about the word narrow. The word narrow literally means to be strangled. in a minute. The word narrow means to be strangled, to be smothered, to be pinched, to sort of be stuck in a pipe. You know, all you claustrophobics immediately start to get goosebumps about it. But it's very clear that what Jesus is saying is the narrow road is a hard road, it hurts, and therefore the broad road is the easy road. Well, why do we call it the easy road? Here's why. The broad road is the road you're born on. The broad road is the road that unless you are struggling with an act of the will to change yourself and to change the direction that you were born in, you're on the broad road. In other words, if you've never done anything really of a major religious nature in your life, if you've never made any major religious decisions, you are on the broad road. You're born on it. It's the easy road. It's that road downhill.

Look, if you were born in America, probably you were raised speaking English. And you never tried to learn English. You just came up learning English. And now if you want to learn another language, it's going to be far harder than it was to learn English. It takes a tremendous act of the will. So, last week we said that there's really two foundations on which you can base your life. You can either believe that you are competent and wise enough to run your own life and to make the decisions. Or you can believe that only God is competent to run your life and make all the decisions. And those are the only two foundations on which to build your life. And they're both faith foundations. Well, the broad road is the easy road. The easiest foundation is the first foundation. foundation. We're all born into believing that we're competent to run our own lives. And unless by an act of the will, you have worked to deny, to change that natural inclination to keep control of your life, if you have never, with all of your might, tried to break your own grip on your own life, that takes a tremendous act of the will. It takes repentance. It takes going to God, it takes an effort, then you're on the easy path and you're on the broad road. And how do you know you're on the broad road? Here's how broad road thinking goes like this. I talked to a student once who said to me, I really think that your understanding of Christianity is tremendously narrow. I believe that I have room for all faiths. And what Jesus is saying is that's very broad He says, I'm a broad-minded person. Of course, the Bible says that's broad-minded thinking. That's broad-road thinking. It leads to destruction. Because you see, Buddhism has its eight-fold path. And the Koran has its five pillars. And Hinduism has karma. And Confucianism has filial piety. And what Jesus is saying, by saying there's two roads and only two roads, he's really saying that every other religion is essentially the same. In other words, he's saying Feuerbach was right about all the religions but mine. They all do have essentially the same focus. They're saying, Here's how to reach for God, the Buddhists say. And then the Muslims say, No, no, no. Here's how to reach for God. And then the Hindus say, Oh, no, no, no. Here's how to reach for God. And Jesus comes along and says, No. Will you stop reaching? Here's how God can reach you.

Stop your reaching and recognize that I had to die for you. really believe that your situation is not so desperate that you can't if you pull yourself together and you bring all of your powers of concentration to bear and you get your life together and you follow this path that you can't reach God and Jesus says Christianity is utterly different your situation is too desperate for that. You need to have somebody come and pay the price for you to do the work for you. Here's how God reaches you and up to now you've been a broad road been trying to be your own savior. You've been trying to keep control of your own life. Will you get your clammy hands off of your life? See the broad road thinking in your heart and turn to me. That's what he's saying. That's broad road thinking. It's the easy path, the one that takes no effort to get on. And if you've never made any kind of major effort to break the grip of your hands on your own life, you're there. And most people are there. And that's not what I say. That's what he says. Do you think I like saying this?

Anybody who knows me realizes it's not my temperament to believe this.

Well, then what's the narrow way? The narrow way. Here's what Jesus says about the narrow way. It's narrow. It is so narrow. Listen. First of all, when Jesus says his way is the narrow way, he means that there's only room to get on that road one at a time. You cannot come in a crowd. You cannot come with your family. You have to deal with him personally. The narrow road means that Jesus Christ and his religion is utterly personal. Jesus was always getting personal. Nicodemus sits down with him and wants to have a nice theological, discussion. And what does Jesus say? Boom! You must be born again. The woman in the well sits down and she tries to have a discussion. She says, well, I'm a Samaritan and you're a Jew. And you know, we have a lot of disputes about whether this is a place where Samaritans or Jews can worship or maybe we both can worship here. And Jesus, you know, Jesus will have none of this chit-chat. And he won't have any of this chit-chat with any of us here. here. Jesus says, listen, my dear friend, oh my dear woman, listen to me. You want to have this polite conversation about theology. Let's talk about the five husbands you've had and the man you're living with right now. Don't you see, you want to talk about theology and you can't even manage your own life. We have got to get personal. We have got to get specific. How are you relating to God. Can you get yourself right with God? We want to talk about general beliefs or general church affiliation or general civic behavior or general moral behavior. Those are all general things. The Gospel says, how are you dealing with Jesus? Do you know Him personally? Have you come to grips with what's between you? Every person who's ever come to Jesus Christ had to come to grips that there's something between you. Do you know what it is? If you don't know what it is, you haven't come to him. You have to deal personally, not generally. It's not good enough to be religious or moral in general or get a little inspiration. Do you know him personally? That's what it means to say the way is narrow. And secondly, the way is so narrow because there's no room. Not only is there only room on there for one person at a time, but there's no room on this road for anything but you. You've got to get everything else. Some of you may want to say, I'd like to come, but I don't want to get there ahead of my family or my friend or my parents or my spouse or my lover or whatever. I can't get there yet because I've got other people that aren't ready to come on. There's no room on that road for anybody but you. You've got to come. It also means there's no room on that road for anything that displeases the king. Don't forget, this is a path to the kingdom. And so anything contrary to the will of the king has got to be jettisoned. There's no room for it. It's a tight fit. Kathy will remember this. I remember there was a man and his family who were living next door to the church in Virginia. And I went over at one point and had a chance to talk to him about the gospel and share the narrow road and all that sort of thing. And at one point, he looked like he was ready to come. And then suddenly he said, wait, does this mean I'm going to have to forgive my sister-in-law? And have to begin speaking to her? And I said, not as a requirement to give yourself to Christ, no. But eventually, of course he's going to ask that of you. He says, then you can forget it. And you know what? He understood something. There's no room on the road for the grudge. You have to be willing to take it off. There's no room on there.

Also, and most importantly, there's no room on that road for anything but you. There's no room on that road for your righteousness. Now, I'm using a biblical word. It's not a real common word. Here's what we mean. You have got to come to recognize that the reason there's only one road to life is because Jesus is the only founder of any religion who died for us. You cannot come to God unless you say, I accept that Jesus Christ had to die my death for me. And I recognize that the best things I've ever done and my greatest accomplishments are as nothing when it comes to them procuring acceptance with God or a place for me in his kingdom. And until you're willing to say that, until you're willing to get rid of your righteousness, It's too big. You can't get on the path. All you need, we keep saying, all you need is nothing. It's the only thing that will fit if you come on anything else. John Gerstner says, he was a teacher that preached a sermon on this once, and John Gerstner says, in Dante's Inferno, there's one road that goes to life and it says, abandon pride, all ye who enter here. And there's a road that leads to destruction, and over it says, abandon hope, all ye who enter here. And there it is. You abandon your pride if you want to have hope, and you abandon your hope if you want to have pride, but you can't keep them together.

There's no room on the road for righteousness. Your righteousness.

It looks awful, doesn't it? Listen, here's the appeal. My dear friends, you know what the basic principle is here? Jesus is saying that the way of obedience always starts off narrow and leads to life. And the way of disobedience always starts off broad and easy and leads to destruction. See, the broad way here starts, the broad path starts looking great, but eventually it leads to prison. A prison of fulfilled longings for love and acceptance. A prison of uncontrollable habits. A prison of unresolved fears. It's a prison and eventually see, the broad road leads to a small place. And then eventually after that it leads into the grave. But the narrow road leads into an eruption of all of your potential and love. Some of you right now are Christians and you went through the narrow gate and you're on the road. Now listen. And you're thinking about bolting because it really is narrow. It's a hard road. You're having tough times, which is exactly what Jesus here is saying. When you go through that gate, it doesn't immediately open up into life. And some of you at some points are saying, if only I could just disobey. I could feel a little bit better right now. If only I could get out from under of God, the will of this king, then I could really swing. I want to bolt and get over onto the Broadway. No, no, no. If you get out of the gymnasium where it's really hard doing all those wind sprints and all those push-ups and all those bicep curls, you'll never know the freedom. You know what happens when you're willing to undergo the narrowness of physical conditioning. There's the increased energy and the increased productivity and eventually there's this spaciousness. Don't bolt. Stay on the straight way. Stay on the narrow way. It's the only one that leads to life. So how do you know which road you're on? Fairly simple.

To be on the narrow way takes an absolute decision. First of all, to forsake your righteousness, to forsake anything that displeases the king,

him, to make him the king. It's a road to the kingdom, to make him the priority or preeminent in your life. And if you find it difficult, just think of Jesus. In the end, the narrowness of the gospel is the narrowness of Jesus Christ. Look at what he did. When he's in heaven, he's in heaven. And he looks down and he sees that if he comes to earth, he's going to have come and be born into poverty, be born into a dirty manger, become originally a single cell, then a little baby. He knows when he was in the Garden of Gethsemane that the soldiers were on the way and there was going to be torture. There was going to be nails splintering his bones and there was going to be thorns in his scalp. There was going to be a spear on his side. There was going to be the slow death of suffocation and he knew that was a mosquito bite compared to the pain and torment of the rejection of the Father. Which way did he choose? the self-indulgent way. Straight is the gate, and narrow is the way that led to life. Look into Jesus' tomb. When you look into that tomb, it looks awfully small and cramped. It looks mighty narrow, doesn't it? And some of you right now, especially those of you who have chosen the narrow way and are feeling stifled, look into that tomb. I get cosmic claustrophobia when I look in there. Jesus. It's a dead end for sure. The way of obedience, the narrow way, is a dead end for sure. He went in there because at the back of the tomb was the gate into life of God. And there was no other way for Jesus into that life than through the tomb. And there's no other way for you and for me unless you take the narrow way, the focused way, the authentic way, the committed way. And please, don't wait too long. Come before winter. If right now what you're listening to moves you, please listen to it. Don't say maybe next day, maybe next month, maybe next week, maybe next year. Don't do that because you might be hard next year. C.S. Lewis puts it like this. When the author walks onto the stage, the play is over. God is going to invade all right. But what is the good of saying you're on his side then melding away like a dream. And something else, something it never entered your head to conceive of, comes crashing in. Something so beautiful to some of us and so terrible to others that it will strike either irresistible love or irresistible horror into every creature who sees it. It will be then too late to choose your side, your path. That will not be the time for choosing. It will be the time when we discover which side we really have chosen, whether we realized it before or not. Now, today, this is the moment, is our chance to choose the right side. God is holding back to give us that chance, but it will not last forever. Let us pray.

Our Father, we thank you for this wonderful, wonderful and tremendously practical pattern and guideline line. That obedience begins as straight and narrow and opens into life and disobedience begins as broad and easy and empties into a small confined destruction. Our Father, we pray that everybody here, if they have already entered that straight gate and are now on that narrow path might be given the incentive and the strength and the refreshing vigor they need this morning to continue on that path as they set their eyes on your kingdom and dominion at the end. And Father, if there's anybody here at all who is in a position where they begin to now realize they're on the broad path, enable them to move over. Enable them to realize today's

help them to see that though at first it may look narrow it's the way to life and now Father we pray that you would grant this for we ask it in Jesus name Amen
