John 12, 1-8

Six days before the Passover, Jesus arrived at Bethany, where Lazarus lived, whom Jesus had raised from the dead. Here a dinner was given in Jesus' honor. Martha served while Lazarus was among those reclining at the table with him. Then Mary took about a pint of pure nard, an expensive perfume. She poured it on Jesus' feet and wiped his feet with her hair. And the house was filled with the fragrance of the perfume. But one of his disciples, Judas Iscariot, who was later to betray him, objected. Why wasn't this perfume sold and money given to the poor? It was worth a year's wages. He did not say this because he cared about the poor, but because he was a thief. As a keeper of the money bag, he used to help himself to what was put into it. Leave her alone, Jesus replied. It was intended that she should save this perfume for the day of my burial. You will always have the poor among you, but you will not always have me. Meanwhile, a large crowd of Jews found out that Jesus was there and came not only because of him, but also to see Lazarus, whom he had raised from the dead. Let's end the reading of God's word right there. That is what we're doing every week. We're looking at a basic vocabulary word of the faith, a basic building block, a basic concept of faith and spirituality. And each week we're taking something out of the Apostles' Creed. The Apostles' Creed is perhaps the earliest summary of the Christian faith which the church put together. It has nothing in it but basic vocabulary, basic concepts. You're going to be reciting them. Before we take the Lord's Supper today. Today I want to get to one that you might miss. It's important. It's in the Apostles' Creed, but it's only there in adjectival form. And therefore it's very typical to go right by it. What is it? In the seminary, which is a graduate school for ministers, the seminary I attended had an old chapel. It was built originally to be the chapel for a Carmelite junior seminary. And the chapel had a raised... It had a raised altar in the center of the room. And people sat on all four sides and there was a canopy. And on the canopy, on every one of the four sides of the canopy, were three words. So you could not come near without dealing with those words. And the three words were, Sanctus. Latin, of course, for holy. See, when Isaiah came near and had the vision in the temple of the very being of God, he heard the word of God. He heard the angels declaring the greatness of God to one another. And they were not saying, love, or justice, which they could have. They were saying, holy. And the Apostles' Creed almost follows suit. Because when you get near the end of it, you'll see one of the things you profess is, I believe in the Holy Spirit. And then in the Holy Catholic Church, which we looked at somewhat last week. But then in the communion of saints, which, of course, is... The Latin word, sanctus, which means the holy ones. And so you're confessing God is holy. You're confessing that the church he creates is holy. And you're confessing that the individual people who come to relate to God are made holy. And there it is again. Holy. Now, what's the point? The point is, you can come to God for all sorts of things that he can give you. He can give you love. He can give you vision. He can give you strength. He can give you lots of things. But the key... Canopy's right. The God of the Bible cannot be dealt with apart from holiness. Holiness is something that has to be dealt with if you're going to approach God. The reason that immediately sounds kind of austere... I mean, I can't imagine there's anybody out there that when you heard me say that said, Oh, great! You don't say that. You have to deal with a holy God. You don't say, Wow! You don't get excited. Because the word holiness, the word sanctity, has got a terrible... connotation, if not denotation, in our vocabulary. Almost never do we use the word holier unless we say holier than thou. Almost never do we use the word sanctus unless we use the word sanctimonious or sanctimon. And because the concept of holiness is confusing to people, obscure or negative, we don't even know what this means. And yet we have to deal with holiness. Holiness is critical. So what does it mean? Well, every week we've been going to someplace in the Gospel of John, and I'm going to a place called... a place that doesn't have the word holiness, but has just about the most wonderful narrative depiction of holiness I know. There's nothing that kind of goes to your heart like a story. And what we have here is a banquet. It's a banquet in Jesus' honor in Bethany. Because Jesus, just a chapter before, in chapter 11, has done the climactic miracle of his ministry, according to the Gospel of John. And that is he's raised Lazarus. His friend Lazarus from the dead. And now there's a banquet at somebody's home there in Bethany in his honor. Lazarus is there. Martha, very much in character, is in charge. Martha's the practical one. She serves. And in comes the second sister, the other sister of Lazarus, Mary. And she does something that is so absolutely unpractical and so absolutely amazing that we're going to look at it. By the way, this is not only given to us here in John chapter 12, but also in Mark chapter 14 and Matthew chapter 26. When you put them all together, you get a pretty complete picture of all that happened. What we're really seeing here, there's four words. I'll just tell them to you so I actually can remember where we're supposed to go with the sermon. And you can too. Four things we learn really about what it means to be holy, what holiness is in a human being. And those four things are unconditional, inexplicable, perceptual, beautiful. Unconditional. The first thing we see is, well, first of all, Mary comes in. And at first, I don't think anybody was surprised. She comes in with what? It says, Mary took a pint of pure nard, an expensive perfume. Now, when you come into a big banquet, in those days when you came to a big event, it was perfectly normal to get out the perfume and the ointment. Why? Because, and I'm not trying to make fun here. This is just the case. This is the years before refrigeration. This is the years before deodorant. This is the year before bath and showers and running water. And what you had in a hot climate was, you can imagine. Think about it. Everything smelled bad. Everyone smelled bad. This is before toothbrushes. This is before toothpaste. Just think about all this. And therefore, how in the world? Now, you say, well, back then it was different. They could handle it. No, they couldn't. From what I can tell, by our standards, they stank. You know what? By their standards, they stank. Okay? And therefore, it was normal when you came into the festive occasion to get out a perfumed ointment, see spices and scents and aromatics and fragrances and perfumes were critical. What you did when you came in was they dabbed something. Very often, the host or the hostess would dab a bit of the ointment on your head. It's very similar. What would happen? The same thing that happens with perfume or aftershave or something like that. Immediately, you are enveloped. You are enveloped in a protective shield, as it were, of wonderful aroma and fragrance. And so that's one of the reasons why you couldn't have a pleasant, wonderful banquet without somebody getting out the perfume. But what she does with it, what she does with it is so startling that in it, we'll see in a minute here why the gospel writer John only tells us about Judas' reaction. He's got narrative reasons for it. But if you go to Mark chapter 14, verse 5, there's an amazing statement. It says,

And boy, even that is really almost a euphemism because the word for rebuked harshly there is a word that means to bellow with anger, to snort or to roar like an animal. The same word that's used when Jesus approaches the tomb of Lazarus. And what it means is the whole... Can you imagine? I mean, until I kind of looked this up and I was studying this and I was thinking about it this week, it never occurred to me... that what she did was so outrageous, so shameful to the people who were there, so disgusting, so offensive, that pretty much the whole room started yelling at her. What did she do? She did three things. First of all, and this is what we get from Mark, she broke the box. Now look what it says here, this is. It says she got out a pint of pure nard, an expensive perfume, and she poured it. Now it doesn't say broke, but you see in Mark it tells us she broke the box. And when you break the box, the container, that means not a little dab, it's all coming out. When you break the container, it means you're using the whole thing. And of course, that's exactly what happens is when it says it wasn't that he just experienced, you know, a little dab and therefore there was a fragrance around him. But look, it says the house was filled with a fragrance. Now the reason that this was so astounding to people, was because this was an incredibly expensive thing. As Judas says, this was a year's wages. Every commentator I read said this, unless these were unbelievably wealthy people, unless Mary and Martha and Lazarus were members of a hugely wealthy family, this would have easily been the most valuable thing they had. Not only that, if it was in an alabaster box, which is what Mark tells us, almost certainly it was an heirloom being passed on down. And what does that mean? What it really was, was really essentially the financial security of that family. If you had this, this was an heirloom that was passed on down. And what it meant, if there was a famine, if there was an invasion, if there was some kind of, and back in those days, things could happen, tremendous turmoil. It meant that even if there was absolutely no way to make any money, no way to make a livelihood, the family wouldn't starve. This was a hedge against disaster. And therefore, probably when they first saw her even bringing this thing out and thought, ah, yes, of course. What an honor. What an honor that she would take this and give Jesus a couple of drops of this. But the first thing she does is she breaks the box and she pours the whole thing out. It's all out. That's the first amazing thing. The second amazing thing she does is she puts it on his feet. In a time, in a place, as we're going to see in a second, that dealing with the feet was considered unbelievably demeaning, unbelievably humiliating. You must never, ever ask somebody, you must never demean somebody by insisting that they come and do, anything to your feet. That was the cultural moray at the time. And that was the second incredible thing. But the third incredible thing was she wiped it with her hair. She let her hair down. She would have had to. She would have unbound her hair in public, which is a complete scandal. They bellowed at her and Jesus says, leave her alone. You know, I can imagine somebody saying, yelling, where is your sense of freedom? Your sense of proportion. And Jesus is saying, your sense of proportion is perfect. See, he understood what it meant. What did it mean? Well, here's what she's saying. In all three of these things, what she is saying is, I am not going to respond to Jesus Christ with any conditions. It is inappropriate to respond to Jesus Christ conditionally. I follow him. I give myself to him. I commit myself to him unconditionally. Look at the three things she did. First of all, when she breaks the box and gives it all out, what is she saying? She's saying, I am going to follow him and I will not be conditioned by cost. In other words, I'm not going to say, well, I'll follow you as long as it's not too expensive. I'll follow you as long as it's profitable. No. What is she saying? What she's actually saying is, I'm willing to give you anything. I'm willing to give up anything. I'm willing to. She's not giving 10%, by the way. There's no way when she did this, this was a tie to her net worth. More like 80 or 90%. And so what she's doing at this point is she's saying, I will follow you no matter what the cost. I give you, I do not unconditionally, you see, I'm going to follow you in spite of what it costs. That's number one. Number two, when she goes to his feet, though, she's going even further. Now, I already alluded to this, and I want to be real brief. One of the things you must remember is that when you come in the Bible to discussions, servanthood, servitude, and sometimes the word slavery is used, we have to be careful that when we see the Old Testament, New Testament talking about servants and slaves, it's really not the kind of slavery, the terrible kind of slavery that had come into the West in the last few hundred years. Because when a Jewish person fell into debt and couldn't make up their debts, they couldn't declare bankruptcy, what they had to do was they had to go into servitude. They, in a sense, lost many of their rights, and they had to go and they had to work off their debt. But the rabbis... It's rightly so said, I want you to remember, they said, that if you have a Jewish servant, that Jewish servant is not devoid of all rights. That Jewish servant has rights. And there's some things you can't ask that person to do. And the Jewish rabbi said, one of the things you must not do to even your servants is to ask them to unlatch your shoes and to deal with your shoes. That's the reason why the disciples, by the way, in John 13, are going to be absolutely aghast when Jesus does it. The idea of somebody demeaning himself like that. But here's what she's doing. What she's actually coming in is she's saying this. She says, I know even servants here in our culture have rights, but I give them up. Even servants here in this culture, there's certain things you can't ask them to do, but I give up that right. I am not going to follow you conditioned by control. I don't want control. I give up my rights to self-determination. There is nothing you cannot ask of me. Then thirdly... And I think the most amazing of all. When she lets down her hair, she goes even further. You see, why were they scandalized? You know, the rabbi said that if a married woman lets down her hair in public, it's grounds for divorce. And of course, if anyone lets down their hair, it was considered a scandal. Why? Well, because it meant then, more so obviously, but to some degree, what it means now. When a woman would unbind her hair, the rabbi said, this is a way of... of showing openness. This is a way of showing love. This is a way of showing intimacy. This is something you should be doing only in private at home with your most intimate family members. That's what it meant in that culture. What is she doing when she does this? I want you to know that it's possible to think you've gone all the way with Jesus. It's very possible to say, I will give up anything you ask for, so I give you all my things. Then secondly, to say, not only that, but I give up... I give up control. I will obey you no matter what you say. I will obey you no matter what you send. I will obey you no matter what the loss is. I will obey you no matter what. Unconditionally. But there's still something you can hold back. You don't have to like it. You can knuckle under. Or not even knuckle under. You can even say, I know this is what I owe. You see what I mean? You can give it, and you can say, I owe it. And I'm going to give it, and I'm going to be obedient, and I'm not going to question. I'm going to submit and do all of that. And still hold on to your emotions. Still hold on to your heart. Still not make him the thing that you delight in. In other words, what she is saying, not only am I going to give you everything I have, I'm going to give you everything I am. I'm not just going to give you control. I'm going to enjoy giving you control. I'm going to love it. I'm going to love you. I'm not going to hold back my heart. I'm not going to give you, in a sense, my will, but put my deepest delight in my husband or my children or my work or anything else. This is amazing. You know what she's actually doing? When she puts down, when she breaks the flask, she's saying, take my silver and my gold. Not a mite would I withhold. And when she goes to the feet, she's saying, take... my will and make it thine. It shall be no longer mine. But when she lets down her hair, she says, take my love, O Lord, I pour at thy feet its treasure store. Take my self and I will be ever only all for thee. What she's really saying is, I'm willing to rebuild my identity around you. I'm not just going to, I'm not just, I'm not just giving you my volition. I'm giving you my deepest delight. Now here's what's going on. What is holiness? Why have I chosen this? Here's what holiness is. And this is, I believe, one of the reasons why John leaves out everybody else and just gives us Judas. What does it tell us about Judas? Why wasn't this perfume sold and the money given to the poor, he says. It was worth a year's wages. He did not say this because he cared about the poor, but because he was a thief. And he liked to help himself to what was put into use. Now, what John is doing is narratively a way of telling us something. He's teaching us this. Why does he leave everybody out? Well, he's not telling us anything wrong. He's just, he's just letting go of other details. Why? Here's why. He is saying there's only two options. Selling Jesus or being sold out to Jesus. There's only two options. Using Jesus or making yourself available to be used. When you go into the Old Testament, one of the things that is very confusing is to read about holy furniture. I mean, the first time I started reading in Leviticus numbers about holy furniture, here's the holy pot. The holy chair. How can a pot be holy? Because, see, when you think of holiness, right away you think of morality, don't you? You think of some kind of inner morality and purity or something like that. And of course, holiness leads to that. Of course, it does. That's not primarily the meaning. The reason a pot was holy was we put it in the temple and it was only used for worship. And now we see what it means to be a holy person. It means to be holy set apart. No, I'll press this. You say, what does that mean? Does it mean be perfectly obedient? See, no, there's a principle involved here. There's a decision that has to be made. In the beginning, being holy is not so much your record. Nobody is perfect. Nobody does everything right. It's not a matter of I've got a hundred rules and this week I took, I can't, I kept 82. Next week I'll keep 84. That means I'll be more holy. No, you're missing the forest for the trees. What it means to be holy is to say, am I following God unconditionally or conditionally? In other words, that sounds okay, doesn't it? But let me put it another, let me give it to you another way. Am I using God? Am I sticking with God as long as it profits me? As long as it's not too expensive. As long as I've got some say. As long as I'm able to put my heart other places. Do I serve God? As long as it inspires, it gives me inspiration, it helps me with my problems and helps me with my self-esteem and gives me more self-control. Am I obeying God? For my sake or for his? Am I using him to get to my goals? Which are the uncondition? Or am I letting him use me to get to his goals? Which is the uncondition? Are his goals unconditional and mine conditional? Or are my goals unconditional and his are conditional? Have you ever said like Job, what good is it to believe when everything is going wrong? What good is it to be a Christian and to say no to everything when all these bad things are happening to me? What does it mean to be holy? What it means ultimately is holiness means to say, take my life and let it be ever only all for thee. Take myself. That's what it means to be holy. It's to make a decision. No matter what he says, I will not only obey him but I will work my heart and reflect until I see that's good. I will obey him and I will like it because I will give him not just my will but my heart. That's it.

now Where does that come from? You say, I don't know, how am I going to get that? Well, that's the other, let me show you what else the text, the text gives us some real help. The text, in other words, tells us that to be holy means, this is the reason why sanctus has to be up there. To say God is holy really means that he's to be worshipped for who he is in himself. He's not a means to an end. To approach him in holiness means to settle that and to say I am not going to be able to ever have any relationship with him unless I settle that. I can't try God. I can't try out God. If he is who he is, he's the unconditioned one. Unconditional importance. And I have to treat him as that. And you have to make that decision. By the way, even if you are a seeker, even if you're someone who says I don't even know if there is a God, okay, fine. Are you ready to find one like this? Think about it, will you? If you're here and you're not even sure, that there is a God, or if you're not sure the Christian God is right, and you're not sure what you think about Christianity, can I just ask you this? Are you even willing to find a God like this? Are you even open to it? And if you say no, I'm not, well, you'll never find him. Why couldn't there be a God like that? Well, there's no reason why there couldn't, is there? So it's an irrational thing. You can't say there, it couldn't be, there couldn't. And if there is a God like that, then the only way you are going to ever even, even begin to meet him is to be open and to say, if you are this way, I'm willing, I'm willing. There's even a way of, you know, proto-holiness, you might say, where you actually say, I don't even know if you're there, but if you're there, I'm willing, I'm willing. I'm willing to find a God like this and to deal with a God like this. Now, how do you, how does holiness actually come? How does she get this way? This is a remarkable thing. Well, first of all, I told you, it's inexplicable. When it comes to religion, the first thing some of you are going to say, and I know this, and I only have a couple of minutes to give you, so I'll be very brief about this. How do we tell this from religious fanaticism? When somebody, some of you certainly were reading, hearing me describe this, and some of you are saying, that's religious fanatic. But no, it isn't. Religion cannot produce this. Why do you think that Matthew, Mark, and John show us her being rebuked? Who's rebuking her? Who's disgusted by her? Who's offended by her? Who's perplexed by her? Religious people. See, this is not religious fanaticism. Religious people look at her and they can't figure her out. They're very upset. Why? Well, first of all, it's mainly the hair. Religious people do go to God's feet. Religious people do pour out their goods. But religious people don't let down their hair. What do I mean by that? Well, first of all, she lets down her hair shows that she is confident. She is confident that, like I said, in those days, a woman only let down her hair when? When she was home. When she was with her family. When she was with the people that she knew she was part of. You see? Home is the place where you go, and they have to take you in. Remember? Is that a movie? Maybe it's just common sense. She takes her hair down. What does that mean? Religious people never feel that kind of confidence before God. They're never sure. They feel that's a front hurry. How could she know? Because religion is always working to try to get God's blessing. Always trying to be good. Always trying to do what's right. Always trying to earn it. So first of all, they can't handle that kind of confidence. They don't understand it. It's not just, by the way, confidence before Jesus, is it? They're astounded at how she doesn't care what the culture thinks. They're astounded by the fact that she doesn't care what the culture says a woman should do and shouldn't do. They're astounded by the fact that she probably doesn't care what Martha thinks. I always thought it was very, very merciful of Matthew, Mark, and John not to tell us what Martha must have done when she smelled it. She would have been in the other room. She would have smelled it. She said, Mary! What have you done? She doesn't care what Martha thinks. She doesn't care what the culture thinks. She doesn't care what the men think. She only cares what Jesus thinks and she's absolutely sure what he thinks. Religion doesn't know anything about that. Religion is very concerned about what the culture thinks. Very concerned about expectations. Very concerned about appearances. Extremely concerned. Holding on to cultural mores and holding on to customs and doing the rules right to bolster and shore up their sense that they're doing well. They don't know anything about this kind of confidence. But on the other hand, they don't know anything about this kind of intimacy. This letting down the hair. Religious people do petition in prayer. They pray a lot. They may come to church and they're praying for all the needs. They may pray for the needs of the world, which is good. They pray for their own family's needs. But here's the one thing they don't know anything about. Lavish, personally lavish worship. They don't know anything about hours and hours of praise. Hours and hours of adoration. They don't know anything about that. Because God, if he's there, is a remote God. He's a boss. He's a God. He's a king. Religion can't produce this. In fact, I've got to finish up here. Let me tell you something about fanaticism. If you need to suffer, if you need to be persecuted, if you need to have bad things happen to you, that's what a fanatic is. A fanatic are people who are deliberately outspoken, deliberately offensive, deliberately, they deliberately get people to get mad at them because they look at me, I'm suffering for Jesus. If you need to suffer, if you've got to suffer, you don't believe the gospel. You're a religious person. You're desperately, you don't know the magnitude of what he's done for you. You basically are into religion. You're just, you need to assure yourself that you're a good person. But on the other hand, if you're not willing to suffer for him, if you need to suffer for him and you're looking for it, but on the other hand, if you don't willing to suffer, if as soon as things get hot, you say, hey, what good is this being a Christian if I'm going to have to have all this stuff, then you too don't know the gospel. You too are a religious person. You too are doing things and expecting tit for tat, quid pro quo. You don't understand the magnitude of what he's done. What the gospel creates is holiness, not fanaticism. It'll never look like fanaticism, really. There's an openness and a confidence, right? There's an incredible humility. She's at his feet. There's an amazing, amazing boldness before men and God because she lets down her hair. Now, really, if it doesn't come from religion, where does it come from? It doesn't come from willpower, even though she gives up her will. Where does it come from? Jesus tells you. Verse 7. Leave her alone. Now, the translators never know what to do with this. It was intended that she should save this perfume for the day of my burial. You will always have the poor among you, but you will not always have the poor. You will always have me. Now, first of all, I had to say something. This sure looks like he's saying, who cares about the poor? Not a bit. A lot of people have read it that way. You know what Jesus is actually saying? This does not assume that the poor are unimportant. This assumes that the poor are incredibly important, and therefore, for him to take preeminence over the poor means he is unique. He is unique in his importance and his glory. In other words, he is assuming, he is assuming the importance of the poor here. That's the reason why what he's saying is so strong. But what he actually says is, she basically knew I was going to be buried. Now, some commentators are saying she knew about the substitutionary atonement. God had told her. God, she had this insight and she knew he was going to die for the world. That's not likely. But many other commentators say she couldn't have possibly known he was going to die. That can't possibly be what it means. But listen, listen. Every time you see Mary in the Gospels, she's at Jesus' feet. But there's a progression. If you go to Luke chapter 10, you'll see Mary and Martha, right? Martha's running around very busy and she's mad. Why? Where's Mary? At Jesus' feet, listening. She was a learner. She reflected on the things that he said. She was a very disciplined learner. She studied his word. She reflected on his word. The second time we see Mary is in John chapter 11. And what happens, there is that Lazarus has died and Jesus shows up and Martha runs to him and says, if you had been here, he would still be alive. He'll rise at the resurrection, but now he's dead. And Jesus has to rebuke Mary and Martha and what does he do? He instructs her. He says, I am the resurrection and the life. But then Mary comes, says the very same thing. Master, if you'd been here, my brother would still be alive. But she falls at his feet. He shows his submission, her submission, and you know what? He just weeps for her. He doesn't instruct her. He doesn't say a thing. Why? Because he basically knows, I think, that Mary's ahead of everybody. Mary understands more than everybody. And then, what's very, very interesting, at the very end of John chapter 11, when Lazarus rises from the dead, this is what we read at the end of John chapter 11. Many who had come to visit Mary and had seen what Jesus did put their faith in him. But some of them went to the Pharisees and told them what Jesus did. What Jesus had done. So from that day, they plotted to take his life. Some of Mary's friends went and told the Pharisees. And surely, some of Mary's friends who believed in Jesus told Mary about what some of her other friends had done. And this is what's going on. She comes in and this is what she's saying. Lord, I now realize something. I realize that the only way you could have raised Lazarus was to bury yourself. I realize that the only way you could have raised Lazarus and you can interrupt my funeral is to cause your own. I realize now it's not simple. If you're going to give us life, you're going to have to lose yours. I can't believe the sacrifice you're making, but I see it. And basically what she's doing is she is singing a song. Were the whole realm of nature mine, that would be a present far too small. Love so amazing, so divine, demands my soul, my life, my all. Now here's the point. Where does holiness come from? Holiness is not a matter of trying harder. It's willpower. It's saying instead of this week, I had 82 rules that I kept. Next week it's going to be 87. It's perceiving. It's being melted by the spiritual understanding of what Jesus has done for her. It's the gospel. His love has awakened her love, but not just that. His dying love. She sees what he's done. And that's the thing that gives her the boldness and the humility. It's not just you're so great so I've got to give myself See, there's no way you could not only give your volition, but also your heart to a king only. She's saying, you're my friend and you are my brother even though you are my king. You're not just a king. You're my brother. You're my lover. Let's be honest. How modern are people look at this and say, gosh, has this got something to do with sex? She lets her hair down for him. That's typical of modern people because modern people think that's not true. That religion has really repressed sexuality. That's what Freud thought. That's what Arthur Miller thought. You know, when he wrote The Crucible about the Salem Witch Trials. You know, all that religious fantasies. It's just about sex. Religion is really about sexuality, but the Bible says, no, sexuality is really about spirituality. Sexuality is a way of coming and trying to get someone of ultimate beauty to look at me and say, I love you. I accept you. And what she has done is she has stared at the beauty of what Jesus is doing. Until it satisfies her. Until he becomes beautiful for who he is in himself. And that's what makes you holy. You want to be holy? You want to get more holy? Number one, make the decision. Make it today. What decision? Realize that it's either or. It's not in between. Either you are using him or else you make yourself available to be used. Make the decision. You say, does that mean I have to be perfect? No. Do you think Mary, was perfect from here on in? Do you think Mary perfectly loved him? Perfectly obeyed him? For goodness sakes, no. But she made the decision. She set herself apart. So set yourself apart. And as you do the Lord's Supper, realize as you pick up especially the cup, what have you got there? You've got a picture of Jesus pouring himself out. Now how did she pour herself out? Because she saw him pouring himself out. Which he literally did. Because he quotes Psalm 22 on the cross which reads, I am poured out. And because she looked at that beauty, she was transformed into its likeness. Holiness comes from the gospel. More specifically, from the beauty of watching him pouring himself out. You can be like her. Not a fanatic, but not a pragmatist either. You can be like her. You know, in the Bible, there's something about Mary's

Mary the mother of God. Incredible. Incredible paradigm of faith. Mary Magdalene and now Mary of Bethany. You can't do better than building your life on what they were like if you want to become what Jesus was like. Father, as we take your cup and we take your bread, help us to, in a sense, break the box around our heart. Break all the conditions that we come to you with. So that we can just pour ourselves out. As we see you pouring yourself out, help us to pour ourselves out and become holy.